Title: Only Light Can Do That
Work ID: 41861823
Author: Kaleran
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fake/Pretend Relationship, Enemies to Friends to Lovers, Enemies to Lovers, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Valjean has anxiety, Valjean has PTSD, Dinner Date, Museum Date, picnic date, Valjean/others (due to Cosette's meddling), Javert doesn't like Valjean/others, POV Alternating, Alternate Universe - Everyone Lives/Nobody Dies, Pining, Mutual Pining, Toussaint (Les Miserables) - Freeform, (she is a cat), Valjean has a garden, Javert is still a cop but he's Working On It, How easy is it to guess the author, Short chapters (sorry), Rated T for swearing, Shopping, Javert knows fashion, at this point we are reversing the fake dating trope, nonromantinc outings with your platonic friend that are actually dates, Requited Unrequited Love
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 45/?

Summary:
Tired from countless blind dates set up by Cosette, Valjean grabs a random person by the arm in line at a café to tell her that he'd "met someone" to save himself from further embarrassment. Unfortunately, he grabs Javert. Javert, who Valjean had to talk off a bridge after the protests last year, who pardoned him in exchange for never seeing him again. 
Cosette is, of course, thrilled. She finds Javert's work email online and pesters him about dating her father. Javert agrees, if only because his subconscious is telling him that he owes Valjean for saving his life twice. From there the two of them proceed to "date" while still kind of hating each other.
Of course, things don't stay that way.

Work text:

To those that know him, it will not come as a surprise to learn that Jean Valjean does not date. In fact, he will rather abstain from the whole practice altogether. He is too old for such things, has too much emotional baggage, has too many things wrong with him to be an acceptable romantic partner to any sane person. Unfortunately, Valjean’s daughter is of the opinion that her father should find love, and now that she is officially married, ceremony and all, she has put all her focus on finding her father a date.

This is not the first surprise blind date Cosette has tricked him into, telling him to meet her for lunch at some little café or another and then sending someone he has never met his way, and it will certainly not be the last. Every single one of them have ended horribly, at least from his perspective. He does not know what to say, how to act, how to manage his wayward emotions into something resembling normal human behavior. These things were easier when he was pretending to be Madeleine, but Madeleine is no more. He must be himself. Cosette is very insistent on that. Unfortunately, Valjean is very bad at being himself.

He spots Cosette’s setup immediately. The woman coming towards him is beautiful enough, silver in her hair and walks with easy confidence. She approaches like a stalking tigress, hands swinging by her side with false casualness. Her expensive leather purse hangs by her hip, her hair carefully styled, glasses clearly designer.

Sometimes, Valjean will sit there frozen while the person Cosette set him up with approaches and forces conversation until he can find a way to leave at the first opportunity, feeling entirely inadequate with a resolve never to leave the house again, only to inevitably be lured out by Cosette’s promises of lunch with her, for real this time.

Other times, Valjean bolts, running away like the inept coward he is, and has himself a quiet panic attack in the stall of a public bathroom.

Today is one of those times.

“Hey,” the beautiful woman says, catching Valjean by the arm as he tries to leave. Valjean finches away. The woman holds tight. “Are you—?”

“No, sorry,” Valjean interrupts quickly, heart racing fast in his chest. “Never heard of him.”

“But—"

“I must leave,” Valjean continues in his panic. “So sorry— Good day!”

He rips himself free and all but sprints down the street, nervous energy driving his stride. There’s another café not even halfway down the street and he turns into it, quickly locking himself in the bathroom to avoid talking to anyone else.

Sometimes, he dislikes his daughter a great deal. Today is one of those times.

Why must she insist on these silly things? He is perfectly content as he is. He has his books, he has his garden, he has his cat Toussaint, a darling little ragdoll breed who was really a present to Cosette once upon a time but it turns out that Marius is allergic and so now she is Valjean’s, and he wants for very little. The quiet suits him.

Cosette disagrees. Adamantly. Loudly. With a great many words.

It takes an half an hour for Valjean to feel somewhat confident to be seen in public again, and very carefully he slips back into the public space of the café and gets in line. It’s quite a long line, as it has officially turned lunchtime and many people have escaped their offices to have lunch out. With all the noise distracting him, he doesn’t notice Cosette coming for him until it’s nearly too late. His thoughts kick into overdrive.

Surely, she will ask about how his supposed lunch date went. He can’t tell her the truth, that he ditched his date yet again, for surely that would disappoint her. She always makes that face when these little setups fail, and he doesn’t want to see that face again so soon. He’s not even at the same café- perhaps he can tell her he made a mistake with the address? Yes, that would work, but the blind date, surely, she’ll only do this again and again until Valjean becomes far too much of a nervous wreck to leave his house. Valjean doesn’t know if he can stand it anymore, these surprise dates and these people he doesn’t know coming up to him and asking all sorts of private questions he doesn’t want to answer, so he should put a stop to it. But how?

An idea starts to form, but Cosette is upon him now. He’s trapped.

“Papa!” she says, shouldering her way through the line to get to him, much to the irritation of those behind him. “I thought I was going to meet you at—"

“I thought I may have had the address wrong,” Valjean interrupts, the lie coming to his lips easily to his own discomfort. “I waited for you for, oh, what, an hour? I was getting worried.”

She frowns at him, reading the lie for what it is. “Papa, what about—"

“Wouldn’t you know, I met someone here,” Valjean says quickly, feeling himself begin to panic again. “Yes, ah—" He blindly reaches for the person in front of him in line, clinging to the arm he finds despite the way it tenses up in his grasp. “Like I was telling you, this is my daughter, Cosette. Cosette, ah, this is—”

He looks at who he grabbed, sees the insignia of the police on the shoulder of the uniform and feels the blood drain from his face with great speed. Then he looks up at the man’s face, recognizing that harsh scowl and those bristly sideburns anywhere, and knows, without a doubt, he is absolutely fucked.

“T-this is Inspector Javert,” Valjean finishes weakly.

To those that know him, it would not come as a surprise to learn that Inspector Javert did not date. In fact, even those that do not know him wouldn’t be surprised to know he doesn’t date. He is too ugly, too serious, too obsessed with his work to have time for such frivolities. Once upon a time, when he was a young man attending police training, he had tried such things like friendship and romance, but quickly discovered they were tiering, unproductive, and distracting. He found the male form pleasing, but that was the only discovery of note that came from that experience. 

Inspector Javert is having a day. He was awoken far too early by construction outside his apartment after arriving home far too late the previous night, his morning coffee had been so terribly burnt that even Javert deemed it undrinkable, and he had recently been informed that the evidence he sent for analysis had a mix-up with the paperwork. The office is set to be audited in a week which leaves everyone on their last nerve, a set of new officers fresh from academy training has only just been assigned to his division to replace those of Javert’s generation who had recently retired, and, to top it all off, one of the wheels of Javert’s office chair has become stuck immobile for reasons no one can figure out. 

All he wants is a nice cup of dark coffee, the kind with enough caffeine where he could physically feel his heart rate increase. Instead of that, he finds his arm being grabbed most unexpectedly and turns to find his longtime foe, Jean Valjean, who seems to be in the middle of having a panic attack, clinging to his arm.

“T-this is Inspector Javert,” Valjean stutters out, his face paling alarmingly rapidly.

Javert has no idea what the fuck is going on.

“Oh!” A twenty-something year old girl brightens at once, her hands clasping together in clear delight. “That’s wonderful, Papa! I’m so proud of you!”

Javert, having not had any kind of caffeine today to wake him up in the least, believes himself to be in the midst of some sleep-deprived hallucination and can only blink stupidly at the scene before him.

Valjean’s impressive grip on Javert’s arm tightens as he forces a smile for the girl. There’s something vaguely familiar about her.

“Well,” the girl continues on. “You seem to have been having a wonderful time without me,” she winks, leaving Javert bewildered, “so I’ll leave you to your date!”

Valjean chokes, his hold now officially cutting off all blood supply to Javert’s hand, and Javert can only blink once more in incomprehension. What? Date?

“Make sure to order for him!” the girl says, then twirls around and flounces off with a clear bounce in her step.

Javert stares off at her, so thrown by what the hell just happened here that he doesn’t know what to think for so long that it takes the cashier to grab his attention again.

“Monsieurs?” the cashier asks, frazzled by the lunch rush. “Your order please?”

“Coffee,” Javert recites, entirely automatically. “Black. Large.”

“Ah,” Valjean says quietly. “J-just a latte, thank you.”

Javert blinks at him, having forgotten Valjean is still clinging to him with a strangling grip. He thinks he may not be hallucinating when he notes he can no longer feel his hand. 

“Valjean,” Javert growls.

Valjean visibly cringes.

“Unhand me.”

Valjean looks down at where he has Javert’s arm captive, than practically leaps away. Javert winces, his hand coming to life with pins and needles. Valjean doesn’t seem to notice, fumbling with his wallet and handing over a credit card.

“What,” Javert growls, his own wallet in hand, “do you think you are doing?”

“Buying you c-coffee?” Valjean answers weakly. “I-it’s the least I can do, after, a-ah...”

Before Javert can protest, Valjean’s card is charged and the two of them are ushered away from the register. Javert glares down at a cringing Valjean. 

This is not how he imagined meeting Valjean again. Actually, he had hoped never to see this man ever again after the most embarrassing moment of his life where Valjean had to talk him off a bridge. Sure, Javert has changed since then, even going so far as to procure a pardon for Valjean as both a surely just act and also to keep Valjean from blabbing too much about what happened after the protests, but he still hates Valjean with a passion. It was a damn coincidence that Valjean ran into him then, anyway. It was an embarrassing momentary lapse in reason, nothing more. He has not seen Valjean since and thanks God for it.

“Why are you here?” Javert demands in a low growl, narrowing his eyes. “What the fuck was that?”

Again, Valjean flinches. He is still pale, his skin nearly matching his snow-white hair.

“W-well,” Valjean begins, voice shaking, “it’s all quite... Erm, you s-see... Ah...”

“Out with it!” 

Another flinch. “T-that was my daughter. Adopted, that is. She wants me to, ah, m-meet people?” He looks up, meeting Javert’s eyes for a fraction of a second before jerking his head away. “I apologize profusely, I- I didn’t even know who I was grabbing, but I had to do something—”

“This explains nothing,” Javert interrupts. He pinches the bridge of his nose, unable to stand looking at the man he hates most in the world. Well, there are other men he hates more, he supposes, but Valjean is beyond irritating. “God, I hate you.”

“I know,” Valjean says softly. “I’m sorry.”

“Fuck off,” Javert mutters without much emotion behind it.

They stand together in silence, awkwardly waiting for their drinks. 

“The girl said, ‘date’,” Javert says suddenly.

Valjean winces. “Ah, yes, about that...”

“For God’s sake, Valjean,” Javert growls, “what the hell did you just drag me into?”

“Cosette— My daughter thinks I’m... lonely,” Valjean says haltingly. “She keeps trying to get me to meet people, surprising me with blind dates and, w-well...” He swallows. “I’m... really no good at that sort of thing. It’s embarrassing. I-I don’t know what I was thinking, grabbing the nearest person and telling her I had finally ‘met someone’.” He laughs without humor. “I can’t— I’m so sorry for dragging you into that, but I- I just—" A look of sorrow comes over his face, so profound that it makes even Javert uncomfortable to witness it. “I simply can’t bear her disappoint anymore.”

“So you want me to what?” Javert asks in a harsh mutter. “Play nice? I never wanted to see you again; do you understand? You got your damn pardon, and the truth about,” he grits his teeth, “what happened last June stays silent.”

“I haven’t told a soul,” Valjean assures him softly. “You- Javert, I know you owe me nothing, that the debts between us have been settled, but can...” He looks over his shoulder, immediately wincing at whatever it is he sees. “M-may I have fifteen minutes of your time? Just so Cosette might think it’s... real.”

Javert nearly laughs. This is absurd. Ridiculous. “The girl said date, Valjean. Does it fucking look like I’m interested in dating you?”

He means it as an insult of his own ugliness, his own hate, his own flaws that make him quite obviously undatable, but Valjean flinches. Hard. Javert refuses to apologize or explain himself.

“Of- of course not,” Valjean whispers. “Forgive me for asking, f-for presuming that—”

An unfamiliar name is called and Valjean startles into motion at once, collecting two cups from the counter before Javert can react. He double checks the labels, handing one of them to Javert with such care he could have easily been holding a live grenade instead. Javert searches him with narrowed eyes, then sighs irritably.

“You have until I finish this,” Javert tells him, taking his coffee without care. “My lunch break is only so long.”

Javert doesn’t give Valjean fifteen minutes. He gives him a whole thirty-seven and counting.

“Look,” Javert says, gesturing with his empty coffee cup, “it’s a fucking waste of time and everyone knows it! Gisquet wouldn’t have taken on three fresh officers straight out of academy if he had known we were going to be fucking audited so damn soon! I know for a fact Chevalier could have put off his retirement three more months and Graves should have left years ago, but no, everyone’s running around like idiots because of this goddamn audit!”

Valjean can honestly say he only has a vague idea what Javert is talking about, considering how he had immediately launched into a rant about interdepartmental politics and inept officers who can’t file things in their proper place to save their lives, but it’s technically a civil conversation so Valjean isn’t about to argue. He can still spot Cosette clear across the café and hiding poorly behind a rather plump gentleman, watching them. Well, him. He doubts she can see the disgust and irritation displayed so blatantly on Javert’s face from that angle, so Valjean forces a smile and nods in agreement on occasion.

“Not to mention I can’t get a single damn person up to fix my chair,” Javert continues, uncaring that Valjean has hardly said anything at all in the past half hour.

“What’s wrong with it?” he asks, just to contribute something to the conversation.

Javert scowls fiercely, glaring at Valjean even if his ire is not aimed at him. “One of the wheels is stuck and I certainly don’t have the time or patience to figure out what’s wrong with it! I hate the damn thing as it is. Hurts my back. ‘Ergonomic support’, my ass!”

Valjean can’t help himself. He laughs.

“What?” Javert snaps.

Valjean covers his mouth with his hand. “Forgive me, I just... I never knew you to be so petty.”

“Of course I’m petty,” Javert tells him. “All of these things build up and are fucking up my efficiency, not to mention the construction across the street from my apartment waking me up at the ass-crack of dawn for the past week and a half!”

Valjean winces in sympathy.

“No timeline on when the hell they’ll be done,” Javert continues. “I’m considering hacking into the fucking urban development’s database just to know when it’ll all stop.”

“Isn’t that—”

“Don’t you fucking dare finish that sentence, Valjean,” Javert growls, rolling his eyes.

Valjean doesn’t.

Javert checks his watch, his eyebrows raising in surprise. “Shit, I’m nearly late. I have to get back to the office.”

He stands. Valjean is quick to mirror him.

“This was... nice,” Valjean says.

Javert snorts. “No, it wasn’t. I complained about everything that’s currently pissing me off and isn’t part of an open investigation. That way, I wouldn’t be cursing you out in public.”

Valjean’s polite smile remains fixed, but his spirits fall. “Ah. Of course.”

“We aren’t friends, Valjean,” Javert tells him, raising a sardonic eyebrow. “I don’t keep those kinds of distractions.”

Valjean’s smile falters. He doesn’t know what he was thinking, that Javert of all people would tolerate him. Javert hates him. He’s cruel and irritable and Valjean shouldn’t be wishing that more of his surprise dates involved being spoken at for so long he need not say a word like this.

“I apologize for the trouble I’ve caused you,” Valjean says.

“Today?” Javert asks dryly. “Or do you mean over the past forty years?”

Valjean looks down. “Today, but, well... All of it, r-really.”

Javert huffs. “I don’t think about that shit unless I have to.”

Valjean shifts awkwardly, clutching his own empty cup in his hands. “A-ah. I see. Well... Goodbye, Javert.”

Javert gives him a curt nod, then turns to leave without another word. Valjean watches him go, feeling odd. This was, perhaps, the first civil conversation they’ve had, excluding the conversations Javert had with Madeleine, and Valjean... enjoyed it. Javert didn’t interrogate him, but just... talked. Vented, more like, but he didn’t mind that Valjean didn’t know what to say, didn’t care that he didn’t add to the conversation much. He didn’t ask the questions Valjean always hates because he knows Valjean’s history already.

It was nice, in a way. Too bad it will never happen again.

“Papa, that was great!”

Valjean starts, nearly dropping his empty cup. He didn’t see Cosette approach.

“So you like tall, dark and...” Cosette quirks her lips. “Okay, maybe not handsome, but tall and dark!”

Valjean nearly chokes. “P-pardon?”

“Your type, Papa,” Cosette says with an exaggerated roll of her eyes. “You’ve never told me and you always avoid the subject.”

“Cosette!” His face heats with embarrassment.

“Just like that!” she says. “Avoiding again! Everyone has a type. It’s nothing to be ashamed of.”

“But—!” The words choke him. To imply that Javert is his ‘type’! Nothing has been more absurd. Javert hates him. Valjean still kind of hates him back.

Cosette pats his shoulder consolingly. “Did you get his number at least?”

Valjean chokes so violently he falls into a coughing fit.

Javert is going to kill Valjean. That kid of his refuses to stop emailing him, on his work email of all things, about his “date” with Valjean, and it’s driving him insane because he can’t just come out and say the thing was staged. Well, he could, but it doesn’t feel right, and lately Javert has been making an effort to listen to his instincts on matters of mercy and whatnot. Valjean’s influence, obviously, from their talk on the bridge that night. Damn Valjean to hell for this entire fucking situation.

She gives him Valjean’s cell phone number. Javert doesn’t know what to do with it. He doesn’t want to speak to Valjean ever again, but it’s looking more and more like he doesn’t have a choice in the matter. His daughter is irritatingly persistent and won’t take no for an answer.

He manages to hold off for a week, citing work and the fucking audit that’s happening in an email that took half an hour to edit his outright hate out of, but after that he runs out of excuses.

So it is he finds himself calling Valjean’s personal number while out on a smoke break, a week after their ‘coffee date’. Javert is on his second cigarette because he spent the first one glaring at the daughter’s email on his phone and muttering swears at it.

“Hello?” Valjean answers, carefully neutral.

“It’s Javert,” Javert says, scowling more than usual.

“How—"

“Your daughter keeps fucking emailing me,” Javert cuts him off. “About the...” He makes a face. “...Dating thing.”

Valjean is quiet. “I... I am so sorry. I had no idea she was—"

“Just make her stop, Valjean,” Javert growls. “I don’t have time to fucking deal with whatever your problem is. You’re not my problem. We’re done, that was the point!”

“I know,” Valjean answers softly. “I really didn’t know she was bothering you; she hasn’t said anything—”

“I don’t care. Just make her stop.” Javert takes a deep drag of his cigarette in a minor effort to calm down.

Valjean sighs, the sound staticky over the phone. “I don’t know how. Believe me, I would love for her to stop. I don’t like the surprise dates she sets me up with. I never know what to say or do when really I’m just fine by myself and I usually end up running away...”

Javert doesn’t know what to say to that. Valjean has a history of severe anxiety that’s clear for anyone to see if they just look at him.

“Why is she so insistent?” Javert can’t help but ask, curiosity getting the better of him. “You obviously hate it.”

Again, Valjean sighs. He sounds far less nervous over the phone, his occasional anxious stutter rarely making an appearance. Maybe this way Javert can get some damn answers.

“She just got married,” Valjean says. “All of her other friends are already paired off, so now she’s turned to me. She thinks I’m lonely now that she lives with her husband, but I’m fine. I have my cat and my garden and my books. I don’t need anything else. I’m really just fine the way things are.”

Javert is starting to think Valjean is lonely and just in denial about it, but that isn’t his problem.

“I had you pegged as a dog person,” Javert mutters.

“Cats are less work,” Valjean replies. “She was originally Cosette’s, but her husband is allergic. Toussaint is nice to have around. She’s very independent.”

Javert doesn’t really understand the appeal of pets that don’t do anything useful, but whatever.

“Your daughter insists that we go to dinner,” Javert informs him.

“...ah.”

“She has recommended several restaurants,” Javert continues dryly. “All of which have entirely unreasonable prices.”

“...I see,” Valjean says, sounding odd.

“What?” Javert asks.

“Oh, I just— Ah, thinking,” Valjean stutters. “Ah, if Cosette insists, and we... go to dinner, perhaps then I can tell her that it didn’t work out?”

“...What.”

“I’m sorry,” Valjean apologizes. “I really don’t know how to make Cosette stop without appeasing her somehow first. She is always insisting I try new things, so if I try it and say it was terrible...”

“So you want to,” Javert lifts his lip in a sneer, “go on a date?”

“Not a real one,” Valjean corrects hurriedly. “Just... pretend. We go, have dinner, leave, and I’ll tell Cosette that you’re not interested in me. Because you’re really not, and, ah...” He mutters something too softly for the phone to pick up.

“I didn’t catch that,” Javert says.

“I said that, ah... I doubt you’re interested in... well, men.”

Javert rubs a hand across his eyes. “I expect you not to repeat this because it’s no one’s business but my own, and I’m only telling you at all because it’s relevant, but you would be incorrect.”

“...pardon?”

Javert growls wordlessly. “I have no interest in dating because it’s a stupid waste of time and I hate nearly every single person I’ve ever met, but if I did, I would date men exclusively.”

“...oh.”

“It’s not exactly a secret,” Javert growls, “but I don’t usually give out details of my private life out for free like this.”

“No, no, I understand,” Valjean says quickly. “I just really hadn’t thought about it.”

“I prefer people not thinking about it,” Javert mutters. “Like I said, personal relationships are a waste of my time.”

“Ah,” Valjean says, obviously disagreeing with Javert’s opinion but doesn’t say anything more on the matter. “I’ll pay for everything, of course, it’s only fair.”

“Pay for what?”

“Dinner.”

Shit. He’s actually serious.

Javert sighs. His cigarette is almost done. He considers lighting a third before deciding that’s probably too much nicotine for one smoke break.

“I need to look at my schedule,” Javert says with a huff, giving in. Last time wasn’t terrible, but that’s also because Valjean hardly said anything at all, not even to tell him he had spent nearly forty minutes talking. Less chance to piss him off if Valjean doesn’t speak.

“You pick the restaurant,” Valjean insists. “Whatever you want.”

“It’s not a real date, Valjean,” Javert reminds him irritably. “I’m there to make a show, not to enjoy myself.”

“I know,” Valjean says. “I’m paying. It’s... the only way I know how to make it worth your while, so pick whatever you want to eat.”

Javert supposes that’s only fair. Valjean did buy his coffee last time. A nice meal in exchange for this farce.

“Fine. Deal,” he says. “I’ll get back to you.”

“I’m free, well, whenever,” Valjean says awkwardly.

“I figured.”

He hangs up without saying goodbye, snuffs out his cigarette, and curses himself for agreeing to this utter nonsense.

Javert gets back to him soon enough, picking a place not so far away from his workplace where he apparently heard that, ‘they have good fish, or something’. It is certainly not as high-class as the restaurants Cosette suggested, but it is still quite nice all the same. Valjean is relieved, for surely he will not have to worry too much about his style of dress in the restaurant Javert chose.

Cosette, of course, disagrees.

“Is this really necessary?” Valjean asks weakly as Cosette decimates his closet.

“Of course it is, Papa!” Cosette replies, tossing the coats she deems inadequate on the floor in a pile. “It’s a first date!”

“Wasn’t the café technically a first date?” Valjean asks desperately.

Cosette makes a dismissive sound. “This is a first real date. A dinner date! You should at least try to look nice for him.”

Valjean sighs in defeat, nearly tempted to tell her right now that Javert only agreed to it so Cosette would stop bothering him, but then he thinks of how disappointed she would be in him for lying. He can’t bear to see that look on her face, to know that the one person he loves knows what a failure he is. Besides, he hasn’t had to deal with Cosette’s set-ups in a week and a half now. It’s a relief. He dreads their return.

“You know I don’t care too much about appearances,” Valjean says.

“Yes, but first dates are important!” Another coat falls to the floor, a green one he purchased in Montreuil-sur-Mer and ten years out of fashion. Valjean likes that coat. “Don’t you want Javert to like you?”

Well, sort of, yes. It would be nice if Javert didn’t hate him so much, but there’s a slim chance of that happening with a history like theirs. He would rather like to be able to pass Javert in the street without knowing he ruined his day with memories of the past.

“I suppose...” Valjean answers awkwardly.

“Don’t you like him?”

Not especially.

“Yes,” Valjean lies.

“Then dress up!” Cosette insists.

He sighs, unwilling to argue with her when she is so set to see him with some kind of romantic partner. Javert will probably put in an effort, but Valjean has never once seen him in anything but his uniform or a button-up. He might not even own more casual clothes.

Valjean did not expect to be thinking about the contents of Javert’s closet so much when he suggested this.

“Papa, I have to take you shopping sometime,” Cosette says, yet another outdated coat from Montreuil-sur-Mer falling to the pile. “Don’t you own anything from this decade?”

Valjean thinks and realizes that no, he probably doesn’t. Why would he spend money on new things when his old things are just fine?

“Cosette, I doubt he’ll care,” Valjean tries. Mostly because he really won’t. Nothing he wears will make Javert hate him any less.

Cosette fixes him with a look. “He’ll definitely care. With the amount of work that man puts into his nails, he must care about appearances at least a little.”

Valjean blinks. “What about his nails?”

“They’re ridiculously perfect. You seriously didn’t notice? They’re practically manicured.”

“I don’t really go around looking at people’s nails.” More like their feet, considering how hard he avoids making eye contact with strangers.

Cosette rolls her eyes. “Really, Papa, you can be so dense sometimes!”

Valjean still doesn’t understand what the state of Javert’s nails has to do with what Valjean should wear on this outing of theirs, but he doesn’t want yet another lecture to make himself late. No matter if this is just for appearances or not, Javert will certainly not appreciate Valjean being late.

Valjean is late.

Javert looks at his watch again, standing outside the restaurant he chose. It’s nice enough, he supposes, but really he only suggested it because it’s within walking distance of his apartment and not so obscenely expensive that he would be looked down upon by even the waiters. Gisquet always brings his husband here on their anniversary and won’t shut up about it, so the food shouldn’t be bad. Javert doesn’t especially like or dislike seafood, he really hasn’t tried it much to be honest, but almost finds himself hoping Valjean will choke on a shrimp tail or something so it ends quicker.

It’s now 6:03, making Valjean three minutes late, but considering Javert has been here since 5:45 that’s bordering more on twenty. He never should have agreed to this. This is stupid. He doesn’t owe Valjean a damn thing. A soft, niggling voice in the back of his mind reminds him that he owes Valjean his life, twice in fact, but he snaps back at it that he already paid for that with the pardon he quietly procured for him. Surely, that’s enough.

The voice doesn’t think so. He tells it to shut the fuck up.

Finally, Valjean appears, stepping out of the passenger’s side of a car that had pulled up along the sidewalk while Javert was snarling at his subconscious. The car is older but kept in good condition. He remembers Valjean was once a mechanic among his many occupations.

Valjean is dressed nice, for once, as Javert has been sneering as his sense of fashion for years, and his face is flushed as he turns to say something to the driver. The girl. His daughter. The annoying one. What was her name again? Javert figures it doesn’t matter. He thinks he recognizes the olive coat he’s wearing as one of Madeleine’s, now so long out of fashion it’s considered vintage. His shirt is white and crisp, his tie an oddly bright shade of yellow that somehow doesn’t clash with the coat.

In short, he’s... surprisingly handsome. It shouldn’t be a surprise. Valjean has always been effortlessly handsome, broad shoulders and white hair and clear skin, but constantly covered it up with terrible clothes in odd colors. Javert knows this. He knows this.

“I... I’m not too late, am I?” Valjean asks.

Javert blinks. The car is gone. Valjean is standing in front of him, nervously wringing his hands. When did that happen?

“Cosette was so insistent on making me look nice,” Valjean continues when Javert says nothing. “I know you probably don’t care, but she wouldn’t hear of it.”

Well. Maybe being three minutes late was worth it after all. Javert certainly isn’t going to complain about having something nice to look at for the next hour or so.

“It’s fine,” Javert says at last, injecting enough irritation so maybe Valjean won’t notice that he’s been staring. “Let’s go.”

He turns towards the doors so he doesn’t have to say anything more.

They’re seated towards the back at a private little table lit by a candle in a minimalistic fish-shaped candle holder that Javert immediately scowls at. He hates it. This isn’t a date. He hates Valjean.

They sit in an awkward silence, Valjean quite obviously using his menu to hide from everyone, not only Javert. Javert doesn’t know if he’s thankful or pissed off by that. He settles on annoyed. Valjean pulls out a pair of gold-framed reading glasses, but Javert can’t see them on his face behind the damn menu.

“S-so,” Valjean starts, that damn stutter back in his voice, “how did you learn about this place? Have you... been here before?”

“I have not,” Javert answers. “My boss takes his husband here every year for their anniversary and informs the whole station, every damn time. It’s irritating, but if Gisquet likes it then the food shouldn’t kill me.”

Valjean makes a stifled sound that could be anything from a laugh to a snort.

“What?” Javert asks irritably.

Valjean lowers his menu just enough to meet Javert’s eyes, then quickly raises it again. Gold is a good color on him. Goes with his eyes. “That was funny. Forgive me.”

Javert shifts awkwardly. He doesn’t think he’s ever been called funny before.

“Does he... recommend any dish in particular?” Valjean asks.

“No idea,” Javert mutters. “I try to ignore him when he goes on about his husband. Never shuts up.”

“He must love him dearly.”

Javert shrugs. “I suppose so.” He pauses, looking over the menu. “Might have said something about swordfish, but all I see is some kind of weird salad.”

“The reviews online said the bouillabaisse was excellent.”

Javert reads the description. “Hmm. Never had clams before.”

“Really?” Valjean asks, lowering his menu again. “They’re quite good. In Montreuil-sur-Mer—”

He cuts himself off abruptly, once again hiding.

“What about Montreuil?” Javert asks irritably.

“Never mind,” Valjean says quickly. “F-forget I said anything.”

Javert barely holds back a growl. “You don’t have to walk on fucking eggshells around me, Valjean. Just say it.”

Somehow, Valjean ducks even lower. Javert is tempted to rip the damn menu from his hands.

“I don’t want to remind you of- of then,” Valjean says softly. “I know you hate m... it.”

“I hate a lot of things,” Javert mutters. “I can fucking handle hearing about that town. I’m not a child, Valjean.”

Valjean’s menu twitches, likely a flinch.

Javert sighs, frustration quickly building as it always does when he has to deal with Valjean. “Just tell me the thing and move on.”

Valjean hesitates for a long moment.

“I- I was going to say that...” Another pause. “The clams in Montreuil-sur-Mer were always... very good.”

Javert frowns, thinking back. He rarely thinks about Montreuil if he can help it. “They had clams?”

Valjean’s eyes peek over the top of his menu fearfully, hardly seeming to relax even upon seeing Javert’s expression. “Y-yes? Most were freshly caught. They quite... spoiled me, rather. I’ve never had better shellfish since.”

“Huh,” Javert says. “The commerce at the docks wasn’t really my area.”

“Quite a few local restaurants served them,” Valjean tells him. “Did you not...?”

Javert snorts. “With my salary? No. Never had the time or the care anyway.”

“...Oh.”

Again, silence.

“The... sardine tartines appetizer looks good,” Valjean hesitantly says after a few more minutes.

“Fine,” Javert says, just to get him to shut up again. He can tolerate Valjean when he’s silent.

An overly cheerful waiter comes to take their orders while Javert is still squinting at the menu. Valjean orders his appetizer and some grilled tuna dish and then it’s Javert’s turn.

“The,” he scans the menu again, before deciding it doesn’t matter because Valjean’s paying and he doesn’t give a shit, “bouillabaisse, I guess.”

Valjean glances at him in surprise, likely expecting Javert to pick anything but what he recommended. Javert keeps the scowl off his face with an effort. If this is to be a date, then it would behoove him to at least try not to hate Valjean so obviously.

“Wine?” the waiter asks.

Javert blinks stupidly. He’s never had wine in this price range before. He didn’t even look at the wine menu.

“Whatever you recommend,” Valjean jumps in quickly. “Just one glass for me.”

“Only one for me as well,” Javert says.

The waiter doesn’t seem surprised at Valjean basically making his decision for him. Then again, it’s supposed to be a date. People on dates do that kind of thing. Probably. He isn’t one to ask.

The waiter leaves, taking their menus with him. Without anything to hide behind, Javert can finally look at the man across from him. His gold reading glasses are quite old fashioned with half-moon lenses and everything, but somehow he doesn’t look ridiculous. Well, a little ridiculous, but not in a bad way. Instead, he’s... charming. Which is not a word Javert has ever really used before to describe anything, especially not things like ex-criminals that he loathes.

“Nice glasses,” Javert says when the silence gets too strained and Valjean starts fidgeting.

Valjean starts, then seems to suddenly realize he’s still wearing them and quickly takes them off. He’s less charming without them and more irritating, so Javert thinks it’s more of the novelty of Valjean in glasses than anything else. He’s still too handsome for his own good.

“I didn’t used to need them,” Valjean says in what’s so hard to hear it’s practically a mutter. “I’m grateful I’ve been blessed with good eyes, even at my age.”

Javert is, honestly, jealous.

“Of course you have perfect fucking eyesight,” he Javert growls.

“What do you mean by that?” Valjean asks. “I’ve never seen you with glasses.”

“They’re called contact lenses, Valjean,” Javert says dryly. “They’re not exactly cutting edge technology. Glasses are a hindrance in my line of work.”

Valjean looks at him for long moments, for once not immediately flinching away, and Javert refuses to be the one to look away first. Instead, he raises an eyebrow.

“Oh!” Valjean looks down at his lap. “S-sorry. It was rude of me to stare.”

“It’s fine,” Javert says, unused to being apologized to. “I’ve had them since forever. Academy, maybe, when I took the mandatory vision test. Sucks for reading anything though, not like I like reading to begin with.”

“I’m sorry,” Valjean says.

Javert huffs, unsure what the hell Valjean is apologizing for this time. “For once, not your fault,” he ends up saying.

Valjean looks down at his lap. Javert takes the opportunity to discreetly check his watch under the table and wonders how long it’ll be until he can leave.

“I am so, so sorry,” Valjean apologizes again, unable to decide if he should touch Javert’s arm to get his sympathies across better or if that would only serve to make Javert even angrier. Somehow, the nurse hadn’t shooed him away when he got Javert to the hospital.

“Will you fuck off already?” Javert wheezes, struggling to get the words out with his face swelled up like a balloon. “I hate you so fucking much.”

Valjean winces. “I- I had no idea you were allergic to shellfish when I recommended the bouillabaisse.”

“Yeah, neither did I!” Javert snarls, immediately flinching with a muttered swear when the movement jostles the needle in his arm.

“Sir, please try to keep still,” the nurse says calmly, resting a hand on Javert’s shoulder. Valjean can see he’s fighting the urge to snap at her as well. “It’ll just be another moment.”

Javert bares his teeth at her. She doesn’t seem to notice.

“I’m really sorry,” Valjean says again.

“If you apologize one more fucking time, Valjean, I’ll— Ow, fuck!”

“It would hurt less if you kept still,” the nurse says without a hint of apology. Valjean cringes out of habit.

“Just fix it already!” Javert shouts, his voice hoarse.

She ignores him, cleaning his arm where the needle used to be with swift efficiency before putting a cotton ball and a band-aid on it. “I’ll have this processed shortly. The swelling should go down within half an hour.”

“Can I leave yet?” Javert asks.

“Not until the swelling lessens,” she answers. Then, without another word, she leaves the room with blood sample in hand.

Javert growls wordlessly at her back. “I fucking hate hospitals.”

Valjean winces again. “I’m really just so sorry.”

“Why the hell are you still here, anyway?” Javert snarls. “Can you ever just leave me in peace?”

“It- It’s my fault,” Valjean says. “If it weren’t for me, you wouldn’t have been there at all, and I even recommended the dish—"

“Shut up, Valjean.” Javert puts a hand over his eyes and takes a breath. “I chose that restaurant. I chose to get the damn clams after you went on about them. Neither of us knew I was fucking allergic to the damn things. I hate to say this, but it’s not actually your fault.”

Valjean doesn’t know what to say to that. It’s almost an apology. He doesn’t remember hearing Javert apologize for anything before, except for maybe the thing back in Montreuil-sur-Mer, but that was a professional mistake. This isn’t professional in the least.

“Shocking, I know,” Javert mutters after Valjean spends too long in silence. “I have changed since... then. A little.”

“I never doubted you did,” Valjean responds softly.

He doesn’t like thinking about that night on the bridge, Javert only half bandaged up from the wounds he took during the protests, raving like a madman and demanding that Valjean let him go so he could drown himself in the Seine. Because he was guilty, he said. Because he had committed atrocities in the name of justice. Because he could no longer clearly see the path he was on and could no longer trust his own judgement. Valjean had hardly recognized him. He doesn’t remember what he said, the details lost in a haze of adrenaline and sleep deprivation, but Javert had lived and Valjean was, well, not happy, because he still hated Javert for everything he had done, but he was relieved.

He doesn’t think he hates Javert as much now, a year later with a thirty-seven minute meeting over coffee and one failed false-date between them. Maybe enough to forgive him. But not here, not now, with Javert furious and in pain from something that’s a little bit Valjean’s fault.

“I really hate hospitals,” Javert mutters. “See too damn much of them. Nothing good happens in hospitals and they’re so damn boring.”

“I’m—"

“I swear to God, if you apologize one more time, I’ll find a way to revoke that fucking pardon I got you.”

Valjean has no idea if he’s serious or not.

“Then, ah, is there... anything I can do?” Valjean asks hesitantly. “To help with the boredom.”

Javert huffs. It might have been a laugh. “No.”

“Oh.”

He fidgets with the hem of his coat, finding a small hole and worrying at it with his fingers. Moths, probably. It’s not like he’s worn this coat since Montreuil after all.

Javert huffs, gazing up at the plain hospital ceiling with an irritated frown. Valjean glances at him from the corner of his eye, uncomfortably aware of how little he belongs here and how much Javert would probably prefer him to leave, but he can’t bear the thought of leaving Javert to be bored and irritated all by himself with only the poor unsuspecting staff to take his rage out on. It seems cruel to leave someone alone in the hospital after it was Valjean’s own fault that put them there in the first place, because the date thing is entirely Valjean’s fault no matter what Javert may say. Oh, if only he had taken the arm of the person to his other side that day instead, or if he had stayed hidden in the bathroom for just a while longer, or if he was brave enough to tell Cosette that he doesn’t need a romantic partner...

But he’s a coward, and imaging the tone of Cosette’s voice and the look on her face when he inevitably tells her how tonight went so terribly wrong has him staying seated at Javert’s side, uncomfortable and desperately wishing he wasn’t the way he is.

“Shut up,” Javert mutters.

Valjean startles from his thoughts, blinking at him. “Did I... say something?”

“No,” Javert answers. “You think too loud.”

Valjean doesn’t know what to say to that. “I’m sorry...?”

Javert covers his face with a hand. Valjean takes note that his nails are, indeed, immaculate, without the dirt or coarse, uneven edges from nervous habits that Valjean’s have. He curls his own fingertips into his palms in shame.

“Do you ever relax?” Javert asks.

Valjean isn’t sure if he wants an answer or if the question was rhetorical but decides to try to answer just in case.

“I....” He swallows. “Not... not particularly.”

Javert snorts. Ah. Rhetorical then. Valjean looks away to hide his face.

“I can see that,” Javert says dryly. “Is it me?”

“...what?”

“Is it me?” Javert repeats. “Am I specifically the cause for your anxiety right now?”

He has to think about it for a moment.

“Partly, I suppose,” Valjean answers eventually. “I know you don’t want me here, you don’t even like me, but I can’t leave someone at the hospital in this kind of situation. You would be...” He almost says lonely, but this is Javert. “...bored.”

Javert snorts a dismissive huff. “Bored,” he repeats doubtfully.

Valjean shifts uncomfortably before he can catch himself wiggling in his seat. “It would be rude to leave you here by yourself when...”

“It’s not your fault.”

Valjean looks at his hands. Old, wrinkled, imperfect. Not neat, not tended to. Ugly. “But it is. I should... I should at least stick around to see you on the mend. It would be rude not to.”

Javert looks at him for long, uncomfortable moments. “Do you think I care if someone is rude to me or not?”

He likely wouldn’t, now that Valjean thinks about it. Javert would probably skip most manners if they weren’t required by society. Valjean shrugs, unable to find the words to voice the reasons why he feels he must stay.

“You could leave, if you want,” Javert says. “Consider this a formal invitation. I really wouldn’t care.”

“I know,” Valjean says quietly. “But I would, and it’s stupid but I just... can’t leave you alone yet.”

Another long look. Valjean manages not to flinch too badly at the judgement surely on Javert’s face. He doesn’t dare look. He’s a coward. He curls his fits tighter, his short, bitten nails pressing crescents into his palms.

“There are parts that aren’t me,” Javert says after a while. “Tell me.”

Valjean has no idea what he’s talking about.

“Your current anxiety, Valjean,” Javert explains irritably when Valjean is silent. “What else?”

“Oh,” Valjean says. “W-well, Cosette, of course. She’ll be so disappointed. This all went so wrong when it was supposed to be... nice, I guess. I know it’s all a farce but...” He buries his face in his hands. “Oh, it was a stupid idea anyway.”

“I can’t tell you if it’s stupid or not if you don’t tell me what the hell you were expecting,” Javert growls.

Valjean trembles, terribly afraid but knowing just the same Javert won’t let it go.

“I t-thought maybe... you wouldn’t hate me so much if it w-went well,” Valjean answers from behind his hands.

Javert says nothing.

“I- I’m not expecting us to suddenly become friends,” Valjean continues quickly, anxious to explain himself, “b-but perhaps civil? I want to forgive you, someday. I don’t want to hate you anymore, I don’t want to be afraid...”

Still, Javert says nothing.

“I- I want to be able to pass you on the street and know I didn’t ruin your day by reminding you of the past,” Valjean says. “I will admit I’m never exactly eager to see you, but I would like to... to stand on neutral ground with you. Someday. We’re both in Paris, it’s r-rather inevitable that we’ll run into each other whether we want to or not.”

“You want to,” Valjean can practically hear the curl of Javert’s lip, “start over?”

Valjean flinches at the loathing in his tone, forcing his hands back in his lap to maintain some sort of dignity. “As- as much as the idea of ‘s-starting over’ appeals to me, I don’t... I don’t think that’s possible. For either of us.”

“Damn right,” Javert mutters.

Valjean doesn’t know what to say after that, instead fighting unexpected tears. He knows Javert is cruel and hateful, that’s just the way he is, but to hear it strikes him deeper than expected.

“It- it was a s-stupid idea,” Valjean agrees miserably.

“I hate nearly everyone, Valjean,” Javert tells him. “You’re not special.”

“I know,” Valjean answers quietly. “I know.”

For long minutes, there is silence.

“I think,” Valjean says at last. “I think I’ll go now. Call my daughter and... well. L-leave you in peace. Like you want.”

He stands carefully, feeling oddly fragile.

“Feel better, Inspector,” he says at the door, not looking back. “For what it’s worth, I am truly sorry. For everything.”

He leaves quickly, grateful that no one really questions the reasons why a man is crying in a hospital.

“You’re what?” Gisquet asks, irritating smile on his face.

“I’m allergic to shellfish!” Javert snarls.

Gisquet is laughing at him and Javert just wants him to shut the hell up.

“Why are you laughing?” Javert asks, teeth bared.

“I’m sorry,” Gisquet apologizes, but it doesn’t quite sound sincere. “Javert, how on Earth did you last over fifty years without knowing you were allergic to anything?”

“I didn’t eat the damn things!” Javert answers. “Why would I?”

“Didn’t you live in Montreuil-sur-Mer for ten years or so?” Gisquet asks, still smiling at Javert’s misfortune. “I heard there’s some good seafood there.”

“It was five years, and I never found myself at their restaurants with a salary like mine.”

“I know what your salary was and you could have afforded it if you had wanted to go,” Gisquet says, easily countering the reasons Javert had told Valjean. And himself, if he’s honest. “What did you eat that landed you in the hospital?”

Javert grits his teeth. Gisquet is insufferable. “I went to that place you’re always on about. Online reviews said the bouillabaisse was good, so I ordered that, had about four or five of the damn things, before—" Before Valjean nervously asked if he was feeling okay and if he had, perhaps, maybe a food allergy, before Javert’s throat closed up and Valjean had to call the hospital. “—before someone had to call an ambulance.”

Gisquet, damn him, keeps laughing. Javert can feel his dignity crumbling away by the moment. The worst part was that the damn bouillabaisse was good and now he can’t ever have it again. He blames Valjean.

Except that’s not fair and he knows it, and the way Valjean had suddenly left the hospital looking so miserable bothers him immensely. Valjean had offered a whole damn bouquet of olive branches and Javert had shot him down just because he was angry about being in the hospital. It was cruel and exactly like the Javert before the bridge, without remorse, until Valjean had left him alone with nothing but his own thoughts to distract him. He had told Valjean he had changed, but after that incredible display of maturity unbecoming of a man his age, he’s doubting it. He has regrets and doesn’t know how to fix it.

“Will you stop laughing?” Javert snaps at Gisquet. “It isn’t funny.”

“Oh, it is,” Gisquet answers. “Must have been a terrible date.”

“It wasn’t a—" Javert nearly chokes. “Wait, what?”

“Javert,” Gisquet says, looking at him with a terrible knowing gleam in his eye, “no one goes to that restaurant to dine alone.”

“It wasn’t a date!” Javert argues.

“Next time, you should try the swordfish.”

“There won’t be a next time, because it wasn’t a fucking date!”

Gisquet pats him on the shoulder. Javert resists the urge to snap at him, if only because Gisquet is his superior. “He’ll warm up to you, Javert. You’re a good man.”

Javert doesn’t think so, not after the way he treated Valjean in the hospital regardless of the fact that they hate each other.

“How do you even know it’s a man?” Javert asks irritably.

Gisquet just smiles annoyingly. Javert kind of hates him.

How many of you knew it was me come on. Tell me. I wanna know who guessed “oh the fake dating one? Definitely Kal” because I feel like it’s very obvious ahahaha

Also this thing is 30k :’) and it’s not technically finished yet :’) but I’m working on it!! Took a turn for the serious and now I’m fighting for the romcom elements. I do plan on updating every day until I run out of content, and with short chapters that won’t be anytime soon. (I am however finishing up vampire Javert chapter it’s not dead I’m just slow)

“I’m serious Cosette, he hates me.”

In his lap, Toussaint purrs contentedly.

“I doubt that,” Cosette says. “You said you didn’t know he was allergic when you suggested shellfish, so it’s not your fault! Maybe next time do something a little... safer?”

“Safer?” Valjean repeats, phone crushed against the side of his face in despair. “Cosette, it was dinner. How much safer can you get?”

“Maybe go to a museum or something,” Cosette suggests, ignoring him. “What kinds of things does he like?”

“We’ve only met twice,” Valjean lies, desperately hoping she’ll give up. He runs a hand through Toussaint’s soft fur. “I really don’t know.”

“Surely you talked about something!”

“He... talked about his work,” Valjean says, because their conversation about glasses was still very much about Javert’s profession. “He’s, ah, very dedicated to policework.” An understatement.

“I’ll find something,” Cosette says confidently. “You can’t go wrong with a trip to the museum!”

“Cosette, he really isn’t interested in—" Valjean’s phone beeps. Javert’s name flashes on his screen. “Oh.”

“What is it?”

“...Javert’s calling me.”

“Then what are you doing?” Cosette asks excitedly. “Answer him!”

“But—"

“I’ll talk to you later, Papa!”

She hangs up, leaving Valjean with no excuse not to talk to Javert. He looks down at Toussaint, half-hoping she’ll give him some reason to avoid this. She does not.

“Hello?” Valjean answers hesitantly.

“My boss thinks we’re dating,” Javert says, launching into a conversation without even a hello.

“Um—”

“I didn’t tell him your name,” Javert continues unprompted, apparently prepared complain without Valjean’s input. Like the time at the café. “I didn’t even tell him I went with anyone! I informed him that I’m apparently allergic to fucking clams or whatever and he told me that no one goes to that restaurant to eat alone. He’s being insufferable about the whole thing and now everyone at the station thinks I have a boyfriend because Gisquet can’t keep his fucking mouth shut!”

Valjean winces. “I’m so sorry, I didn’t mean for this to—"

“I know,” Javert interrupts. “I know this madness wasn’t your intention, I know your daughter’s damn insistence isn’t your fault and you’re just trying to catch a fucking break, I know I’m the last person you want to hang around with. Valjean, I fucking know.” He sighs and mutters something the phone doesn’t pick up. “Look, I’m not a good person. I thought I had changed, but I’m the same angry bastard I’ve always been. I’m good at my job and that’s about it. Unfortunately, it seems like we’re stuck until we manage to convince your daughter and my boss that we really aren’t interested in dating each other. Gisquet refuses to believe me when I tell him it wasn’t a date and thinks I’m guarding my privacy because he knows me too well and that’s exactly the kind of shit I would do if I were actually dating someone.”

“You have changed,” Valjean tells him. “The fact that you agreed to this at all instead of telling Cosette that none of its real proves it. You don’t have to be nice to be a good man.”

Javert snorts. “Gisquet called me that too. A good man.” He laughs, a single sharp bark of humorless sound. “He assured me that my boyfriend would warm up to me. Warm up to what, exactly? My good humor and handsome looks?” He laughs again, the sound harsh and cruel.

“I’m sure he means well,” Valjean assures him awkwardly. He doesn’t know when Javert will return to snapping at him with familiar hatred, for surely that’s the reaction he would get if he tried to provide some kind of comfort.

Javert snorts. “I don’t like people, Valjean, and I especially don’t like it when they lie to me.”

“You... think he lied?”

“Why else would he say something like that?” Javert says. “Never mind. I didn’t call to complain about my boss. What did your daughter say?”

Valjean would much rather ask Javert what reason he has to think Gisquet wasn’t telling the truth, but fears Javert’s cruel tongue if he dares pursue that line of conversation.

“Um,” Valjean says, trying to gather his thoughts after that sudden turn. He looks to the cat in his lap for guidance, but she only blinks blue eyes at him. “She said... Well, she thinks I, we, should try again. Something different. She suggested museums.”

Javert growls wordlessly. “I doubt that there’s a dinner date in history that went worse than that one did.”

“I’m really—"

“I know,” Javert cuts him off. “That’s really annoying, did you know that? I know you’re sorry, saying it ten more times won’t make a damn difference.”

“O...kay?” Valjean says hesitantly. “W-well, ah, Cosette thinks I’m exaggerating when I told her you hate me. She’s... really set on this.”

“No shit,” Javert mutters. He sighs. “We do one more of these things to get Gisquet off my back and Cosette off yours, deal?”

“Oh, okay? Ah, what should I get you this time?”

“What?”

“I bought dinner, not like that went especially well, and before I bought you coffee. As... payment, of sorts. To make it worth your while.”

Javert makes a neutral sound. “Just get me coffee again. I’m not complicated.”

“Okay.” Valjean pauses awkwardly, unsure what to say next. “I’ll... call you when Cosette organizes things? She’s insisting on it.”

“Fine,” Javert says, then hangs up without another word.

Valjean stares at his phone for long moments, then puts his phone down and sighs.

In his lap Toussaint meows questioningly.

“Oh, Toussaint,” Valjean says, running a hand over her back. “You wouldn’t understand. No one can hate you, no one expects much of you. I don’t think even Javert could hate such a beautiful creature.”

Toussaint yawns, her pointed teeth reminding him oddly of Javert’s unsettling grin, and curls into a cream and brown ball for a nap.

Short chapter is short. However I did count and there’s currently 22 chapters written (let’s see if I can finish it up entirely before I post all of them)

Javert is more irritable than usual after his fake dinner date with Valjean to Gisquet’s obvious confusion. He spends as much time as possible out of the office, walking the streets even when he’s off duty just to help him think. Nights are best for thinking, with less tourists seeing his uniform and asking for directions and interrupting his thoughts. Valjean would probably be displeased with how often he stops in the middle of bridges just to look down into the Seine and wonder if he made a mistake in hesitating that night. If he had just done it, Valjean wouldn’t have had the chance to take hold of him and he wouldn’t be in this mess. He wouldn’t be here at all.

But he is. Valjean saved him that night and Javert is, in a way, grateful. He has changed, his black and white thinking expanding into something not so strict and when he doubts, which is frequently now, it doesn’t immediately send him into a panic. But he isn’t doubting the law this time, as he sometimes does. It’s himself he finds flaws in, himself he finds fault. His work has changed, but he hasn’t. He’s still cruel and petty and spits insults without thinking of the pain they may inflict. He still hates. Sometimes, the hate is all that keeps him going now that he’s no longer following the law blindly. Without the law, he has little else to hold on to.

He thinks, for the first time, that maybe it’s a bad thing to see nothing but the negatives. Yes, it certainly makes crime easier to deal with when he always expects the worst, but it leaves him jaded and cynical and bitter. He doesn’t know how to be anything else, but seeing Valjean flinch from his mere presence, he’s thinking that maybe he doesn’t want to be like that anymore. Maybe the old Javert isn’t as dead as he thought.

Unfortunately, he doesn’t know how to change that part of himself. The few times he’s complained about work to Valjean had left him feeling lighter, even if Valjean didn’t say anything. So maybe he can try this not hating thing. Maybe Valjean won’t be so annoying when Javert is always expecting the worst from him, because Valjean is nowhere near as angry as he used to be. Instead, he’s timid. Afraid. For a man of his strength, it’s rather disconcerting. Javert remembers Madeleine being skittish, but not nearly to this degree. In prison, Valjean was a terror, but Javert had only seen him the last few years of his sentence when he was arguably at his worst.

He realizes that he really doesn’t know Valjean at all.

Javert didn’t join the police to help people; he joined to punish the unjust. He might not be so punishing anymore, but he certainly doesn’t know how to help. He doesn’t have the patience for it, but then again, he’s never really tried before. It’s annoying with Valjean flinching from every word he says, words coming from his mouth in pieces out of old fear. He doesn’t want Valjean to be so afraid. It hasn’t gone unnoticed that Valjean is significantly more relaxed in private, hardly ever stuttering over the phone. Valjean himself said that Javert isn’t the primary cause of his anxiety, and Javert wants that stutter and those flinches to go away. Valjean is free; shouldn’t he be enjoying it instead of hiding away in fear?

The stone is cold under his hands as Javert looks down at the Seine, the surface littered with stars. It didn’t look this way that night. There were no stars to guide him out of his turmoil. If Javert had faith of any kind, he might consider this a sign. He isn’t that optimistic and only has faith in his own ability, but even that is failing. He doesn’t understand how Valjean can be so loyal to God when he’s been wronged so many times.

It always comes back to him. Jean Valjean. The man who wants to forgive Javert for the injustice he’s committed against him. Javert has never wanted forgiveness, never expected it. He has never given it himself, holding onto his grudges with a white-knuckled fist, so he expects nothing in return for the world has never given him anything. Quid pro quo. However, despite everything, Valjean has always given. His money, his compassion, his strength. Javert has never understood why.

Maybe he should ask.

Cosette has gotten them tickets to the Conciergerie, a museum mostly focused on the Revolution. She says something about how Javert might find the Revolution interesting, considering his obsessive nature about his work, and Valjean hesitantly agrees. All he wants is for things to go smoothly, for he and Javert not to argue too much and to part amicably and hopefully no one will end up in the hospital this time. At this point, it almost seems like too much to ask. Javert doesn’t want to stop hating him, as disheartening as that is, and Valjean will do his best to, well. Fade into the background. Just because Cosette thinks it’s a date doesn’t mean Valjean has to stay at Javert’s side the whole time.

Again, Cosette dresses him and complains that she really must take him shopping. Valjean had gotten out of one such outing by saying he had plans to have coffee with Javert, which was a lie but left her happy and distracted from Valjean’s lacking wardrobe. He probably won’t be able to pull the same stunt twice, not without Javert backing him up which won’t happen. He dares not ask.

At least today he’s on time, meeting Javert at a café across the river that Javert apparently knows well. Valjean didn’t ask why, although his curiosity demands answers. From what Valjean understands, Javert doesn’t exactly live close to the Île de la Cité.

Javert is already present, coffee in hand. Valjean inexplicably feels guilty upon seeing it. Wasn’t he supposed to buy Javert coffee for this?

“Hey,” Javert says when Valjean gets close. “Did your daughter dress you again?”

Valjean flushes with embarrassment. Today, Cosette found Valjean’s only black coat and forced him into it. “S-she insisted. I keep telling her it won’t make a difference, but she won’t listen.”

A strange, negative look comes over Javert’s face, but it’s gone before Valjean can decipher it. “Well, you look better than you usually do, if that’s any consolation.”

Valjean doesn’t know what to do with a complement from Javert, so he tugs at the hem of his black coat self-consciously. “I think I bought this for a funeral. I... don’t like wearing black.”

“That explains a lot,” Javert mutters. “Why not?”

“Pardon?”

“Why don’t you like wearing black?”

Valjean blinks stupidly. “W-well, it’s rather depressing, isn’t it? I would prefer wearing something more colorful, to make people happier.”

“Oh God, that yellow coat,” Javert groans, turning his eyes skyward. “That thing was hideous, and that’s why you wore it?”

“It was a perfectly lovely coat,” Valjean defends weakly. “Yellow is a happy color.”

“Not like that,” Javert says. “Dear God, not like that. I wanted to burn that thing.”

“I thought it was nice,” Valjean says softly.

“You look terrible in that much yellow, Valjean,” Javert mutters. “Before you buy anything like that monstrosity again, educate yourself on color theory in fashion. Take a class. Watch a YouTube video. Anything. You burn my eyes on a regular basis and if you subject me to that yellow atrocity again I just might—" He cuts himself off with a grimace. “Never mind.”

Valjean wants to ask what he was going to say but holds his tongue. “You would... care?” he asks instead.

“Anyone with eyes would care,” Javert mutters, sipping his coffee. “Madeleine dressed like out of a catalogue made for someone else, but you never seem to give a shit.”

Valjean looks away. “I did buy outfits out of a catalogue. I didn’t know what else to do.”

Javert laughs, something honest this time even if it’s still not a very pleasant sound. “Seriously?”

Valjean flushes. “I know I’m no good at fashion. I thought it would be safer than trying to do it myself when I was elected.”

“I thought some of Madeleine’s clothes looked weirdly familiar,” Javert muses. 

“How do you know so much about this?” Valjean asks.

Javert snorts. “Not really by choice at first. I grew up on the streets without much money. I had to make every bit of it count and I hated being treated like shit because I was poor, so I learned what kinds of things to spend my money on in charity shops to be treated decently. Had to blend in. Now it’s observation and habit, I suppose.” He snorts again. “Not like anything could fix what I look like, but no changing that. It is what it is.”

“Oh,” Valjean says softly. He didn’t expect Javert to tell him something so honest and personal. “Thank you for telling me.”

Javert gives him an odd look. “You asked and I answered.”

“Well.” Valjean glances up, then away. “I’ve always thought you look quite... nice.”

“Don’t lie to me, Valjean,” Javert growls. “I know perfectly well what I look like.”

“I’m not lying,” Valjean says. “You just... You do everything with such confidence. You’re always in control and always so focused. I’ve... it’s always been something I’ve envied. Your clothes have only ever added to that and I just...” He shakes his head, embarrassed. “It’s silly, to admire someone for just the way they walk.”

Javert stares at him for a long time. “You’re serious.”

Valjean ducks his head. “It- it’s an odd thing to notice, I’m sure—"

“Valjean, I don’t exactly get many compliments,” Javert interrupts. “Don’t you dare apologize for that one.”

“...oh,” Valjean says stupidly. “Then, ah, I won’t.”

They sit in silence until Javert finishes his coffee.

“I thought you said you would let me buy you coffee for this,” Valjean says when Javert throws his cup away.

Javert only raises an eyebrow. “I’m an active-duty cop in his fifties. I always need coffee. Buy me one after, at this place. It makes my favorite coffee in the city.”

“Isn’t it far from your work?” Valjean asks before he can stop himself.

Javert rolls his eyes, leading them out of the café. “I’m at the Palais de Justice on a somewhat regular basis in court. Of course I’d need coffee after that shit. I hate working with people.”

“Oh,” Valjean says, feeling somewhat foolish. “Does... that mean you’ve already been? To the Conciergerie, that is. It’s right underneath…”

“No,” Javert answers. “I don’t really do regular leisure activities. The only reason I’ve been to museums is if something’s been stolen, and that’s not my usual area of expertise anyway. They have a whole different department for white collar crime while I deal with the rabble.” He looks at Valjean for a brief moment. “And you, I suppose, but you always pissed me off just right for me to make an exception regardless of the fact I don’t get involved with shit like identity fraud, tax evasion, supposed child abduction... Well, everything, I guess. Actually, the only things you did that are really my area were theft and breaking parole.”

Valjean flushes, uncomfortable with the reminder even if Javert’s tone is neutral.

“I’m sorry for that,” he apologizes.

Javert snorts. “No, you’re not. You’re sorry for pissing me off, but not about breaking the law.”

Valjean flushes further because he’s right.

“C-can we not talk about that?” Valjean asks.

Javert looks at him with a curious expression. “You had your reasons for most of them and you won’t do it again. I wouldn’t have procured that pardon for you if I didn’t know that. You piss me off, but you’re not a bad person unlike some people I could name.”

He mutters something that sounds suspiciously like “Thénardier”, but it doesn’t make Valjean feel any better.

Disclaimer: I don't know shit about the Conciergerie and I am making things up wholesale.

Javert doesn’t do history as a general rule, but he remembers enough about the Revolution from grade school to know the gist of what’s going on. Unfortunately, he also doesn’t do reading, and most of this museum looks to be reading descriptions and looking at old stuff. The text on most things is decently large but reading this much is still going to give him a headache within half an hour. He somehow loses Valjean within the first ten minutes and spends another five hunting him down and trying not to be irritated by it. They were civil at the café and Javert thinks he could maybe try apologizing for being a dick at the hospital, but if today keeps going the way it is it’s not going to happen any time soon.

“There you are,” Javert says when he finally finds him looking at a display of fancy nobility dresses.

Valjean jumps at Javert’s voice, turning quickly. “Oh, Javert. A-are you enjoying it?”

Javert raises a sardonic eyebrow. “If I knew there was going to be so much reading, I wouldn’t have bothered with contacts today.”

“Oh,” Valjean says again, clearly not understanding. Damn him and his perfect eyesight.

“They’re designed for distance, not reading,” Javert explains. He is quickly losing patience. “Reading gives me a headache when I’m wearing them, and everything here is reading, Valjean.”

“Oh— Ohh.” Finally, understanding dawns on Valjean’s face.

“Isn’t this supposed to be a date?” Javert asks. “I am fully aware I am not particularly pleasant to be around, but surely you haven’t tired of me so quickly.” Or maybe he has, but Javert is hoping that there’s a different reason even if only for the sake of whatever he’s going to tell Gisquet.

“I-I know it is,” Valjean says, the irritating stutter back. “I only thought you... may enjoy it more without me.”

Javert blinks, but Valjean does not look at him nor suddenly make sense.

“It’s going to be difficult to enjoy with a splitting headache if I have to read all of this myself,” Javert tells him. “In fact, I’m going to be difficult if I have to do that. I’m not pleasant to begin with, but I assure you I only become worse when I’m needlessly in pain and pissed off.” He huffs. “Besides, I know Gisquet is going to ask me about this and not take no for an answer. You know I can’t lie for shit. I have to give him something and fuck knows what he’ll do if I tell him I scared you off so soon.”

“Oh,” Valjean says softly, tense and clearly uncomfortable with Javert’s presence.

Javert almost wants to strangle him. Instead, he turns to the exhibit Valjean was looking at. “What’s this, then?”

“Well, it-it’s a dress,” Valjean informs him helpfully.

“I can see that, Valjean,” Javert growls. “I’m nearsighted, not fucking blind. What does it say about the dress?”

“I haven’t read it yet,” Valjean admits, shoulders raised in a near-cringe. “I-I was thinking about Cosette. She likes this sort of thing. History and fashion and dresses with big skirts...”

He trails off, staring in the general direction of the mannequin but seeing nothing. Javert resists the urge to rub at his temples.

“Just read the damn plaque,” Javert mutters. “Paraphrase it for me. We don’t have all day.”

Valjean does, glancing at Javert too many times, and slowly they work their way around the room. It has a theme of fashion worn by the aristocrats that were beheaded during the revolution, which is morbid enough to keep Javert’s attention even if he doesn’t have any interest in history. He makes a few comments here and there, mostly about the absurdity of how many damn layers there were, Valjean glancing at him with an odd look of surprise every time. It’s kind of annoying, but Javert holds himself back from snapping. If he’s to make some kind of peace with Valjean, he needs to make an effort.

“Cosette would enjoy this,” Valjean muses to himself.

Javert only nods, not quite knowing how to answer.

The next room details the executions, which Javert wrinkles his nose at but presses on. Valjean looks equally unnerved, so that’s something. There’s a list of all the people who were put to death during the revolution that Valjean starts reading before Javert can object, and object he does. Valjean flinches and Javert grinds his teeth together in anger at his own actions. He’s supposed to be trying to be nice and still, he does this.

“I didn’t mean to snap,” Javert says awkwardly. “I just really have no interest in the names of people long dead. I doubt I would recognize anyone.”

“Oh,” Valjean says, a look of puzzlement on his face. He clears his throat and the look is gone. “Well, onto the next, then?”

The next turns out to be detailing the prison system, with restored original cells and everything, which interests Javert far more than anything else they’ve looked at. Crime is an age-old problem and, unlike politics or fashion, hasn’t changed one bit over the eras. Obviously, he’s interested in it.

Unlike the other rooms, Javert wants to look at everything on display in case it has relevance. There’s a pair of hand irons on display which don’t look much different than modern-day handcuffs only heavier as well as an actual ball and chain. Prison cells haven’t really changed much either and he all but drags Valjean in to read the descriptions in there since the light is shitty and there’s no way Javert can do it.

It’s only when Valjean’s voice starts shaking that he notices something is wrong.

“Valjean?” Javert asks, looking at him. He supposes the light is poor in the cell for ambiance or whatever, but it’s certainly not helping when he’s trying to figure out what’s wrong with Valjean.

“I-I’m fine,” he says in a tone that suggests he is not fine. He doesn’t look up. “Where was I, a-again?”

“Valjean.”

“Ah. It s-says here that the p-prisoners were only fed h-hard b-black bread and water—"

Javert covers the plaque with his hand. Valjean is abruptly silent.

“Valjean,” Javert says again. “You are not fine.”

“I-i-it’s nothing,” Valjean stutters. He’s looking down, staring at nothing, and Javert only grows more concerned.

“Look at me.”

Valjean glances up, but before his eyes reach Javert they catch on something else and stay there. At this angle, Javert can see that his face is pale although the lighting really isn’t helping. Javert glances behind him and sees nothing out of place. There’s just the museum with their cases of old things on display and the bars of the cell—

“Fuck,” Javert swears. He grabs Valjean by the sleeve and drags him out of the cell, needing to stop and catch Valjean when he stumbles over his feet. Valjean’s still got muscle on him, Javert notes, before dismissing it as entirely inappropriate to the situation. He knows Valjean is handsome and powerful but checking him out can wait until he’s not having some kind of episode.

“What do you need?” Javert asks him. Getting him out was easy, but Valjean still looks terrified. Shit. How long had Javert not noticed he was having a panic attack?

“I-it’s fine,” Valjean insists. He’s somehow got a hold of Javert’s hand and is squeezing it so hard Javert can feel his bones grinding together, so Javert really doubts that.

“Don’t lie to me,” Javert growls. “You’re not fucking fine. What do you need right now?”

Valjean hesitates, his eyes closed and breathing rapid. “Quiet,” he says hesitantly. “Alone. U-usually I hide in a r-restroom.”

Javert tries to remember where the hell he last saw a restroom, retracing their steps and pulling Valjean along with him. Probably near the entrance. It would make the most sense. At least the museum is mostly empty today. He doubts Valjean would fare better with more witnesses present, considering his social anxiety.

Valjean’s hand in his is warm.

Look I have spent many an anxiety attack in public restrooms on my phone don't judge him.

It’s ruined. He ruined it. It was going perfectly fine and Javert was finally engaged and not looking so bored, and he ruined it. Javert had seen and, although Valjean is yet again alone and panicking in a public restroom, Valjean knows that Javert will not ignore it. He’s too driven by curiosity to let it lie. A trait Valjean usually finds admirable, except for now.

A knock at the door. “Valjean?”

Valjean buries his face in his hands and prays very hard that he will simply vanish. Unfortunately, he stays right where he is.

His phone buzzes.


You still in there?


Valjean types out a shaky, Yes. There’s a quiet beep from outside. Javert’s phone, no doubt.

“Need anything?” Javert asks through the door.

No, Valjean texts him.

“Want to talk about it?”

Valjean hesitates, then types another, No.

“Okay,” Javert says. “This really isn’t my area, but this isn’t just anxiety, is it? You have PTSD.”

Unseen, Valjean flinches.

“What’s more, it’s gotten worse since Montreuil,” Javert continues. “You were jumpy, yeah, but not like this. From what I understand from your daughter, you’re kind of a shut-in.”

He would argue that he’s not, he’s just older now and likes his books and the company of his cat but can’t find his voice nor the words to put to his keyboard.

“Have you seen anyone for this?” Javert asks. “A doctor? Psychologist?” A beat. “I would like an answer, Valjean.”

It takes Valjean in inexplicably long time to type his answer.


No I’m fine


“You’re not fine!” Javert snaps. “I got you that fucking pardon and you haven’t even—!” He cuts himself off with a frustrated growl. “Look, this isn’t any of my business and you can tell me to fuck off whenever, but what the hell? You were supposed to be free and go off to live whatever fairytale life you wanted! Not jumping at shadows and having panic attacks in public restrooms!”

I’m fine, Valjean sends again.

“I’m literally the last fucking person to ask about this shit, but you need to see someone about this,” Javert tells him. “Does your kid know how bad it gets for you?”


Cosette doesn’t know


Javert’s phone beeps. Javert is oddly silent for a long time.

“What doesn’t she know?” he asks at last, his voice oddly even and lacking the venom it had.

Valjean’s fingers are clumsy, his vision blurred with tears.


Everything


“She doesn’t know anything?” Javert explodes, his voice practically a shout that leaves Valjean trembling, separated through a door as they are. “What the hell have you told her, then? What’s your explanation for shit like this? Is that why she doesn’t seem to know why we’re the least compatible people on the planet?”

Valjean cringes.

Javert makes a sound that could be a sigh or a mutter. “Fuck, that explains a lot. Jesus.” A pause. “What the hell are you looking at? No, it’s occupied. Find another one. Yeah, the exhibit didn’t agree with him, I guess. Look, he’s going to be a while, all right? Find another fucking restroom. I’m busy here.”

It’s strangely kind of him to do that, to ward off people so Valjean doesn’t have to while he’s shaking and fragile. He didn’t have to do that. He didn’t have to do any of this, actually. It would have been easier if he had simply left, but instead he stayed. Valjean doesn’t know what to think of him now.

“I’m probably not helping you get over this by shouting at you,” Javert says. “I’ll be outside. Text me if you need anything.”

It takes a long time for Valjean to type out, Thank you.

Javert’s reply comes back shortly. No problem.

Javert has smoked two cigarettes out of boredom and considering a third by the time Valjean finds him at the riverside. His face is pale and his shoulders are hunched as if expecting a blow, but he’s put together enough to face people. So that’s something.

“Hey,” Javert says. 

Valjean doesn’t meet his eyes. “I-I’m sorry.”

“For what?” Javert asks. “Shit that’s entirely out of your control? Don’t worry about it.”

“I should be able to c-control it,” Valjean says quietly.

“Valjean, it’s PTSD,” Javert says. “It’s not something you can fix on your own and it won’t go away if you ignore it. You should see someone. I know you have the money.”

Valjean shakes his head. “I’m—"

“You’re not fine,” Javert interrupts, scowling. “Christ. There are so many ways you’re not fine, Valjean. The severe anxiety, your obvious trust issues, your agoraphobia to list a few. I’d bet anything you’ve got insomnia and haven’t gotten a full night’s sleep in years while we’re at it.”

By the way Valjean flinches, Javert knows he’s right about the sleep thing.

“Nightmares, too?” he asks. “What about depression? Easily fatigued? Is it hard to get out of bed in the mornings? How’s your sense of taste?”

“Please,” Valjean whispers. He’s cringing again. Javert grinds his teeth, irritated that the pardon he so painstakingly procured is going to waste.

“Let’s sit down,” Javert says instead of asking more questions. “Saw a bench down that way, away from the road. Might be quieter.”

Valjean follows him without a word and Javert could kick himself for pressing on all Valjean’s weak spots. He expected Valjean to lash out at him in some way, but instead he stood there and took it. Like all the fight Javert had witnessed over the years is just gone. It’s disturbing.

They sit. It doesn’t escape Javert’s notice that Valjean had placed himself at the very edge of the bench, as far away from Javert as he could. It sends an unexpected jolt of pain through him. Is Javert really that cruel, that ugly, for Valjean to not want to be anywhere near him?

Javert supposes that’s fair of him, considering the things he just said.

“I’m not intentionally trying to be cruel,” Javert says after a moment. “I got you that pardon so you would be free from your past and I find it frustrating that not only are you not free but that you’re not doing a single damn thing about it! Have you really not told anyone? Not even your kid?”

Valjean shakes his head. His hands are clasped tightly in his lap.

Javert tugs at his whiskers in frustration. “I’ve never understood you, but now I think I actually understand less, if that’s even possible. Do you like being miserable? You realize that the only reason your kid is pressuring you into dating is so you’ll leave the house and talk to someone who’s not her, right?”

Valjean nods. Javert tries his very best not to shout at him.

“I’ll poke around, see if I can find someone who’s experienced with this kind of shit,” Javert says when he’s sure he won’t raise his voice. “Like I said, not my area, but I’ll take a shot at it.”

It takes a long moment for Valjean to respond. “That’s... kind of you. Not... necessary.”

“Of course it’s necessary,” Javert mutters. “You’re a mess and you deserve better than this. You’re free. You were supposed to be happy about it.”

Valjean continues to look at his hands. Javert scowls at the river and considers a third cigarette. This was supposed to go well and Javert’s gone and fucked up and continues to fuck it up at every opportunity. Shit. Gisquet will never let him hear the end of this.

“What kinds of things do you like doing?” Javert asks. “Preferably things that get you out of the house.”

Valjean is quiet for many moments. “I- I like to garden,” he says softly. “I find nature to be... relaxing. Almost.”

“Makes sense,” Javert muses. The city is loud and chaotic and probably hell on Valjean’s PTSD.

“I like t-taking walks,” Valjean continues hesitantly. “On good days.”

“Where do you go?” Javert asks. He walks quite a bit too, more for work and for his commute rather than anything else yet thinks he probably would have run into Valjean by now if they had the same haunts.

“Parks, the p-public gardens,” Valjean answers. “I... like the old graveyards too. They’re... peaceful.”

Javert gives a noncommittal hum for an answer. Different routes, then.

Valjean stays quiet.

“Since today went to shit, I have no doubt that a third date will be thrust upon us,” Javert says with a sigh. “Maybe it’ll go better if we do something both of us actually like. You don’t like people, I don’t like people, seems like we should do something that doesn’t involve dealing with crowds or go somewhere where the tourists like to hang about. Yeah?”

Valjean shrugs wordlessly.

“I’m trying to fucking problem solve here, Valjean,” Javert growls, teeth snapping together. “We need something entirely unfuckupable, and I don’t know enough about what kind of shit you like to plan something accordingly.”

Again, Valjean shrugs without saying anything.

Javert takes a breath, growling on the exhale, trying to calm himself down so he doesn’t fucking strangle Valjean. He pulls out his phone. “I’m going to Google some ideas and we’re going to fucking figure this out.”

“...what?” Valjean asks.

“Google, Valjean,” Javert growls. “Because not only do I not date, but I also don’t pay particularly close attention to what other people do with their significant others. I refuse to have your kid plan another disaster, okay?”

Valjean doesn’t say anything more and Javert squints at his phone. Maybe he should invest in a pair of glasses for times when he’s not working and still has to read shit.

“Dinner date, did that already, so no,” Javert mutters. “Cinema or theatre, also no. Can’t even talk during those things. What... yoga? Rock climbing? What the fuck is this list?”

“A show would be easy...” Valjean says quietly.

“Too many unknowns,” Javert replies. “When I say unfuckupable, I mean it.” He goes back to the search and finds one calling itself easy date ideas. “Hiking, no, that would mean leaving the city. Scenic drive, also no. Christ, do these people not know what Parisian traffic is like? Picnic in the park...”

He trails off, looking at the picture. It’s just a regular city park. Valjean said he likes parks and there’s certainly less people there than other places. It’s definitely going to be hard for extraneous circumstance to fuck up an outing like that unless they do it themselves.

“Want to do that?” Javert asks.

Valjean blinks at him. “What? Sorry, you were muttering and I... stopped listening...”

Javert rolls his eyes and passes his phone to Valjean. “You said you like parks, right? And there won’t be surprise allergies if we bring our own food. If we do it on a weekday then there won’t be that many people about to trigger your anxiety or piss me off.”

Valjean doesn’t take his phone, instead simply looking down at reading what Javert had pulled up. That’s oddly considerate of him. Most people just grab it and irritate Javert when they change the page to something unrelated to what he was trying to show.

“Oh,” Valjean says quietly. “Yes. That would be... nice...”

Javert is not nice, but all he needs is one date to go not end in a train wreck and he’ll never see Valjean again.

“I’ll let you know when I’m free,” Javert tells him, putting his phone back in his pocket. Valjean barely looks better. “Do you want me to call you a taxi?”

Valjean frowns. “What?”

“A taxi, Valjean. So you can go home and deal with your panic attack there.”

Valjean looks at him in confusion. “...what?”

Javert growls. “We’ve agreed that this didn’t go well enough to get our respective nosy people off our backs and agreed to another one. I have paperwork to do and you aren’t doing so good and there’s really no reason not to go home.”

“...oh,” Valjean says. “I... I suppose you’re right.”

“I usually am,” Javert mutters to himself.

Then he calls for a taxi. After he hangs up, Valjean’s fingers brush his wrist, light as a feather.

“Thank you,” Valjean says softly.

Javert shifts uncomfortably, not used to being thanked like this. “No problem.”

Valjean doesn’t know what to think about Javert. He’s... different than what Valjean expected. Sharp and cutting around the edges, yes, but he waited for Valjean’s panic to go down enough to face people again and was concerned for his mental health, in his own confrontational way, and called a taxi to take Valjean home. It was nothing like Valjean expected him to be. He’s coming to realize it was nice. Before, Javert and nice did not ever belong in the same sentence. It’s different now.

Javert had even texted him the names and contacts of a handful of therapists. Valjean won’t use them because he’s perfectly fine and has no wish to talk to strangers about his history, but he’s oddly touched by the gesture. He didn’t expect him to follow through, which in hindsight is ridiculous. Javert does not say things unless he means them. Valjean knows this, yet it still came as a surprise.

He doesn’t tell Cosette exactly what made this date a failure but assures her that Javert has the next one in hand. Actually, a picnic in the park is oddly romantic for such a pragmatic man, but surely Valjean is just reading too much into it. It’s not like he likes Javert enough to want to romance him after all.

Still. Javert surprises him. In one way, he’s exactly like Valjean expected him to be. In another, he’s entirely different. It throws him off. He expected Javert to wave off his panic attack, but instead, he was concerned in his brusque sort of manner. It was sort of nice. Valjean felt raw, being seen so clearly, but it was nice. He wasn’t expecting nice.

Javert called him, confirming a date the next week, and Valjean was failing to plan what to pack. Would Javert bring food and a blanket, or is that up to him? Valjean would rather be the one in charge of the food so Javert can at least get a good meal out of it, but he didn’t end up planning that far. Maybe he could text Javert instead of bothering with a call. Texting is far less daunting.

Am I bringing food? Valjean sends.

Javert doesn’t respond quickly, which makes sense given it’s the middle of the day and the man is most certainly working, so Valjean takes Toussaint into the garden and takes pictures of her among the flowers while he waits. She is very patient with him and he rewards her with bits of ham from his lunch while he picks out the best pictures to send to Cosette.

No shellfish, Javert’s text flashes across his screen.

Valjean accidentally sends him a picture of Toussaint. He panics.

Nice cat, Javert texts. Yours?

I’m so sorry! I meant to send it to Cosette! Valjean types frantically. Yes, she’s mine. Her name is Toussaint.

Javert doesn’t reply.

Do you like cats? Valjean asks, then immediately wishes he hadn’t sent it. Do you like cats, what is he thinking? Javert probably doesn’t want Valjean asking him questions like that. They’re not really dating. He still doesn’t particularly like Javert, except Javert showed unusual kindness on their last date. Valjean had liked it. He had liked Javert helping him. He doesn’t know what to think of Javert now, but he shouldn’t have asked him such a stupid question such as do you like cats.

He covers his face with his hands, alone in his own house with only Toussaint as his witness.

I don’t do animals, Javert replies. It’s a good picture.

Valjean doesn’t know what he means by that. A good picture? Is that a complement or a statement? Does Javert like photography? Valjean is hesitant to ask. He probably means nothing by it, but what if he does?

What kind of food are you thinking of bringing? Javert sends. It’s a relief to be brought back to a less ambiguous subject.

I was thinking sandwiches, Valjean types. The apple tree in my garden is nearly ready to be harvested, so maybe some apples and cheese? Wine?

God, he just asked Javert if he wanted wine. On a date. Valjean’s cheeks are all but burning in embarrassment. It’s not a real date, but it certainly feels like one. He can’t imagine offering Javert wine, but he just did and now he’ll have to do it again in person if Javert agrees.

Sounds fine, Javert replies. I’ll bring the wine.

Are you sure? Valjean sends without thinking. I owe you.


No you don’t.



?



Just tell me what fucking wine to bring. I don’t know anything about wine.


Valjean is pretty sure he still owes Javert for putting him in this position to begin with, but he’s not about to start an argument that will only make their fake date more awkward. Instead of asking about it, he sends, Some kind of Pinot Noir will be good.

Javert doesn’t respond immediately.

It doesn’t have to be expensive, Valjean adds anxiously.

I can’t afford expensive, Javert texts. I’ll find something.


 



Okay. See you Thursday?



 



Yes.


Valjean stares at his phone for a long time, but that seems to be the end of it.

He still doesn’t know what to think about Javert.

Javert wishes he didn’t still feel bad about triggering Valjean’s PTSD. Maybe then he wouldn’t have dropped more than he cared to on a single bottle of wine, but he’s here and the bottle is under his arm. Valjean has this stupid little basket that looks like it was made for picnics. Javert kind of hates it for being so picturesque for a farce like this. Today, Valjean is wearing a worn blue sweater to ward off autumn’s chill with a pair of jeans. He looks... nice. Nice in an approachable, kind way that Javert could never be. There’s a yellow leaf tangled in his windblown hair, looking perfectly at home. Javert hates how Valjean manages to pull off a fucking leaf like it’s a fashion statement. No one should be able to look good with a leaf in their hair.

“You have a leaf in your hair,” Javert informs him.

Valjean’s cheeks turn pink and he brushes his free hand through his hair. He doesn’t get it. Instead, Javert is irritated to note that a pink faced Valjean looks even better with a leaf in his hair than before.

“It must have gotten there when I was picking apples,” he says.

“Let me get it,” Javert mutters.

Valjean blinks, but that’s enough permission for Javert. He reaches over and plucks it out without a fuss, letting it fall to the ground. Valjean’s hair is soft as silk against his fingers.

“Oh, thank you,” Valjean says quietly.

Javert makes an irritated sound, rubbing his fingers together at his side as if to remember the texture of Valjean’s hair. “I’m hungry. Let’s go.”

They walk aimlessly around the park until Valjean gets the nerve to pick out a place, to which Javert agrees. He doesn’t know what the hell he’s doing. Eating outside on the ground seems like a sure way to get ants in his food, but Valjean seems happy enough about it. Keeping Valjean happy and relaxed sounds like a good way to survive a date without it going to shit. It’s annoying that Valjean is so anxious all the time, but it’s not his place to do anything about it. He sent Valjean a list of therapists, but he’s very sure that Valjean won’t do anything about it himself unless someone pushes him. Maybe his daughter would help, but Javert isn’t about to go there. It’s none of his business.

Valjean spreads out a soft blue and yellow blanket that’s clearly well-loved. His little basket goes in the middle, Valjean sitting down next to it with only minimal trouble with his left knee. Javert vaguely remembers something about an injury when Valjean was in prison. He’s surprised he remembered something so trivial.

“Javert?” Valjean asks. He gestures of Javert to sit.

Javert does, certainly with more awkwardness than Valjean. He feels ridiculous. Valjean doesn’t look ridiculous, but Valjean’s on the ground a lot anyway with gardening and shit. Javert doesn’t remember the last time he was voluntarily on the ground like this. Usually, he’s only here because someone hit him.

“Now what?” Javert asks, trying to find a way to situate his long legs with the least amount of awkwardness possible.

“Well,” Valjean starts, opening his basket. “I brought sandwiches if you want to eat now.”

“Why wouldn’t we eat now?”

Valjean’s shoulders come up around his ears. “...right. Ah, which do you want?” He holds out two sandwiches wrapped in clingfilm.

“What’s the difference?” Javert asks.

Valjean blinks. “They’re both roast beef with onion and provolone.”

Javert takes one just to spare them the awkwardness. Valjean seems to let out a breath. So maybe he isn’t as carefree as he seems.

“Did you make this?” Javert asks after the first bite.

“Yes?”

Javert stares at him. Why must Valjean be good at everything? It’s irritating.

“It’s good,” Javert says.

“Oh.” Valjean’s cheeks turn pink again. “Ah, thank you.”

They sit in silence as they eat their sandwiches. Javert feels his leg cramping up and is reminded that he’s too old for this shit. He tries to shift and ends up knocking the wine over. Luckily, it isn’t open yet. He’d be pissed if he stained Valjean’s stupid blanket.

“Wine?” he asks Valjean when he recovers the bottle.

“I have glasses!” Valjean digs into his basket and proudly produces two stemless wine glasses.

“Did you bring a corkscrew?”

Valjean is quiet.

“No,” he answers. “No, I didn’t.”

Javert sighs. “Give me the knife.”

Valjean does. It takes Javert nearly fifteen minutes of swearing by the time he gets the damn thing open and there are bits of cork all over from when he was too impatient.

“That was impressive,” Valjean says.

Javert scoffs, showing off the remains of the mangled cork. “No, it wasn’t.”

“I never would have thought to use a knife like that.”

Javert shrugs. “I’ve seen it done a few times. Once I saw a guy open a bottle of champagne with a sword.”

Valjean laughs. Briefly, but he laughs. He’s annoyingly handsome. “A sword?”

“Yeah, one of those ceremonial ones,” Javert explains. “It was at one of those awful events where you have to show up in the fancy uniform. Some of the guys were more than a little tipsy when they decided to open more champagne and couldn’t find a corkscrew. One of them said they saw it on YouTube once and yeah, apparently, it’s a thing.” He shrugs. “Something about the carbonation helps it work so I doubt it would work on this. And there would be bits of glass everywhere which isn’t ideal.”

“I have to see that.”

So Javert looks it up on his phone and plays a YouTube video of some random guy opening a bottle of champagne with a sword. Valjean pours them both wine and Javert tries to balance his wine, his sandwich, and his phone with only two hands. It’s good wine though. Javert’s glad it’s not a terrible waste of money.

“There are still idiots in the police force,” Javert says. “Idiots who do shit like this at official functions.”

Valjean chuckles.

“They’re awful things. Very, very boring. There’s little to do besides take advantage of the open bar.”

“Oh?” Valjean raises an eyebrow. “And what’s your usual drink of choice at such functions?”

“Scotch,” Javert answers immediately. “But only because they don’t have the cheap beer I like.”

“I didn’t take you for a scotch guy.”

Javert shrugs. “It’s alright. Gives me something to do during those things. What would you drink if given an open bar?”

Valjean thinks for a moment. “I don’t know. I’d probably stick to Pinot Noir.”

“Boring,” Javert scoffs.

“I like my wines,” Valjean justifies, holding up his glass as proof.

Javert rolls his eyes.

“This is good,” Valjean says. “Thank you for bringing it.”

Javert grunts. “You’re welcome.”

“How about some cheese?”

The cheese pairs alright with the wine, although Javert really doesn’t know what would pair well anyway, and the fresh apples from Valjean’s garden are absurdly good. Javert manages to get Valjean talking about what else he grows in his garden even though Javert knows nothing about gardening. 

Valjean is relaxed here in the grass. It’s a marked difference from their other dates. His anxious stutter is all but gone, his shoulders relaxed, and occasionally he makes an expression almost like a smile. It’s really, really obvious that he’s handsome when he almost smiles at Javert. Almost enough for Javert to pretend that he’s really on a date with him, but then he’ll remember that Valjean’s annoying and contradictory and apparently far too eager to sacrifice his own mental health for the happiness of others. All are traits Javert isn’t prepared to deal with in a partner. Plus, he doesn’t really have much free time. Once a week is the shortest period between dates that he could work into his schedule.

Not only that, but Javert isn’t exactly a prize himself. He’s made his peace with his less-than-attractive appearance and finds fulfillment in his work, although significantly less now that Valjean had torn the blinders from his eyes, so he really doesn’t want to change anything to accommodate a partner. He likes his work, even if Gisquet is annoying and the new officers are embarrassingly young and making him feel old.

Not that he wants to date Valjean. That would be weird, wouldn’t it? With him having tried to arrest Valjean for almost twenty years and being his literal jailer before that? Yeah, that doesn’t exactly build trust. Javert’s surprised Valjean didn’t bullshit some excuse not to see him again after the thing with the clams. Javert wouldn’t blame him. And, PTSD aside, Valjean is far too handsome and nice for someone like Javert. It would never work.

“Did you feel that?” Valjean asks.

Javert brings himself back to the present. “Feel what?”

Valjean holds his hand out and Javert feels the first drops of rain on his shoulders.

“Did you check the weather?” Javert asks.

Valjean shakes his head. “You were the one planning this. I thought you did.”

“Well, I didn’t,” Javert says. The rain starts coming down harder. “Fuck.”

If having a picnic in the park was romantic, then getting caught in the rain was more so. They lacked the single umbrella which would have completed the whole thing, and then Valjean shakes his head and reminds himself that he doesn’t want to date Javert anyway. In addition, the rain is freezing and the closest shelter is a dirty bus stop bench, which isn’t romantic in the least. Javert is swearing under his breath and they’re both soaked and it’s cold. Valjean shivers, wishing he had worn something wool instead of cotton. His sweater is little more than a wet, heat-sapping blanket on his shoulders.

“Goddamnit,” Javert mutters, pulling his hair loose from its tie and shaking it out. It’s dripping wet. Valjean has never seen Javert with his hair down. It’s... nice. It falls in loose waves even weighed down with water as it is and Valjean wants to know what it feels like. Course? Silky?

Ridiculous. Javert doesn’t want to date and he certainly doesn’t want to date Valjean. He wouldn’t want Valjean touching him or his hair. He certainly wouldn’t let Valjean braid it even if he did give permission for some reason.

“What?” Javert asks irritably.

“Pardon?”

“You’ve been staring.” Javert’s face is set in a scowl. Valjean doesn’t remember a single time where he’s seen Javert smile genuinely.

“Your hair,” Valjean says without thinking.

Javert narrows his eyes. “What about it?”

“I’ve never seen it down before. It’s nice.”

Javert continues to look at him with suspicion. Valjean looks away.

“Sorry.”

“You don’t think it’s too long?”

Valjean blinks. “No? It, ah, it looks good on you.”

“Hmm.” Javert looks away, busy trying to wring out the worst of the water from his hair. “Don’t apologize for a compliment.”

Valjean doesn’t know what to say after that.

“Is it... long for a reason?” Valjean asks hesitantly.

Javert scoffs. “I like it long, no matter what people say about long hair on men.”

“It looks good on you,” Valjean says again.

Javert sends a tired glare at him. “You said that already.”

“I’m trying to compliment you.”

“I heard you the first time.”

Valjean looks at his feet. “...Sorry.”

Javert makes a sound of frustration but doesn’t say anything else.

It had been going so well before it started raining. Valjean had been enjoying himself, listening to Javert complain and drinking good wine. Javert had even listened when Valjean started talking about his garden, which Valjean hadn’t expected. It had been like a proper date and everything. Now he doesn’t know what to do with himself. He shivers and holds his picnic basket a little tighter.

They stand in silence for several minutes, the sound of the rain doing nothing to soothe Valjean’s anxiety. There are already puddles forming in the street. Valjean shivers.

“You’ll be less cold if you take that wet sweater off,” Javert says.

“I’m fine,” Valjean replies hurriedly.

Javert scoffs. “You’re shivering, so no, you aren’t fine. Do you want to get a cold?”

Valjean shifts himself awkwardly. He’s only wearing a t-shirt underneath. If he takes the sweater off, then Javert will have to look at his prison tattoos. It would be best to avoid that, no matter how cold he is.

“I’m fine,” he says again.

Javert narrows his eyes but doesn’t ask again.

Again, there is silence. It’s awkward. Valjean clears his throat.

“Ah, I thought today went well,” Valjean says. “Until the rain, of course.”

“Yeah,” Javert agrees noncommittally. “Fucking rain. Damnit.”

“It’s not your fault. You can’t stop the weather.”

“I could have remembered to check the goddamn thing though,” Javert growls. “Unfuckupable, I said. I couldn’t even do that.”

“Well,” Valjean says. “It could be worse? We could have needed up at the hospital again.”

Javert snorts. “Or I could have triggered you so you needed to spend forty-five minutes calming down.”

Valjean looks away. He opens his mouth.

“If you try to apologize for that, Valjean, I swear to fucking god,” Javert threatens. “You already apologized for that even when you didn’t need to.”

Valjean cringes. “Right, ah, sorry.”

Javert flicks his wet hair out of his eyes and crosses his arms. “Seriously, repeating yourself doesn’t do anyone any favors. It’s annoying as fuck.”

Valjean doesn’t know what to say to that, as clearly sorry, isn’t it.

“W-well,” he starts anyway, “other than the rain, today was, ah, good? I... I liked it. It was fun.”

Javert looks at him strangely. Valjean shuffles his feet.

“What?” Valjean asks.

“You had fun?” Javert asks.

Valjean looks away again. “Is... is that so bad?”

“No. Just unexpected.” Javert snorts. “I’m not typically what people describe as fun.”

“Well, I found today enjoyable.”

Javert is quiet for so long that Valjean starts to berate himself for saying something so stupid.

“...me too,” Javert agrees eventually.

Valjean doesn’t know what to say to a Javert who just agreed that he liked spending time with him. He never once expected it would happen. It’s a nice feeling.

He opens his mouth to ask if Javert thinks they need one more date, selfishly hoping they could become friends, but before he can say anything a car speeds through the puddle in the road and splashes them both. Valjean jumps back, avoiding the worst of it, but Javert is not so fortunate.

“Watch where the fuck you’re driving!” he shouts after the car, all but shaking in anger. He shakes out his arms, water flicking away from him. “Fucking hell,” he snarls. “I liked this shirt!”

Valjean winces in sympathy. “Do you want a ride home?”

Javert’s scowl doesn’t leave. “No, I can get home by myself. Fuck.”

“It would be no trouble...”

“Valjean, you really don’t want to be around me when I’m pissed off,” Javert snaps at him. “Even when it’s not your fault.”

Valjean looks away. “Well. You’ll be off then?”

“Yeah,” Javert answers in a growl, still preoccupied with his wet shirt. It’s a nice neutral blue, but now the front is covered with water that is just grey enough to know it will stain. “Fuck. Shit. I just fucking bought this!”

Valjean winces. “I’m sorry.”

Javert glares at him. “Don’t apologize for things that aren’t your fault, Valjean. It’s annoying.”

“Jean,” Valjean says. His brain catches up to what he’s saying but finds himself continuing regardless. “You can call me Jean.”

What is he thinking? Javert doesn’t want to call him Jean. He wants Valjean to leave him alone.

But didn’t Javert admit to enjoying their date? Valjean doesn’t know what to think about that. Anyway, it’s not like Javert will give him permission to use his first name in turn, whatever it is. He must have one. Valjean has never heard him be addressed by anything other than Javert.

“What?” Javert asks.

“Er,” Valjean says. He looks down, flushing with embarrassment. “N-never mind. You don’t have to.”

“Why would you want me to call you Jean?” Javert asks. “You don’t even like me.”

“I think I could.”

Javert’s stare is like a physical thing. Valjean looks down at his shoes and shifts awkwardly.

“Hm,” Javert says. “Don’t expect miracles.”

Valjean winces. “I’m not,” he says hurriedly. “Just… if you want to.”

Javert grunts and unsticks his shirt from his chest. “Damn. I’m cold and wet and pissed off. I’ll think about it.”

Hearing that cheers Valjean unexpectedly. He didn’t expect Javert to even consider it.

“Anyway,” Javert says, still scowling. “See you.”

He jogs into the rain without another word.

“Bye,” Valjean says belatedly, even waving at him even when Javert’s back is turned and he knows he won’t be looking back. He cringes at his own actions. He sighs, looking after Javert. Then, shivering, he makes his way back home.

Javert can’t focus for days after their picnic date. So many little things stick in his mind. Valjean’s soft hair, his stupid little sandwiches that Javert would kill for because they were damn good, how that blue sweater looked on him especially soaked to the skin as he was. His smile.


‘Call me Jean.’


Javert scowls at his paperwork, trying to focus. It doesn’t seem to matter. Valjean’s soft insistence echoes through his mind. Why the hell would Valjean even want Javert to call him by his first name? It’s stupid. Valjean shouldn’t even like Javert. No one likes Javert. He’s not made to be liked.


‘You don’t even like me.’



 



‘I think I could.’


Javert throws down his pen and gets up, cursing his stupid stuck chair when it doesn’t roll the way it’s supposed to. He grabs his coat, mutters something about needing a smoke, and heads out into the street so he’s not trapped alone with his thoughts. It doesn’t seem to help.

The things Javert has done are unforgivable. He’s tried to be a better cop since the protests, but more and more he’s realizing that that’s exactly the problem. Valjean shouldn’t forgive him, he doesn’t deserve to be forgiven. After tracking him down like a dog? After all he’s done to make Valjean’s life hell?

And yet Valjean says he thinks he could like him.

Javert realizes he wants Valjean to like him. He stands frozen on the sidewalk, unlit cigarette halfway to his lips.

What the fuck.

Since when does Javert want people to like him? Valjean especially? Valjean is annoying. Valjean has a shit ton of issues he should be dealing with but isn’t and it’s something that pisses Javert off every time he thinks about it. Valjean’s daughter is even more annoying than Valjean himself and they’re basically a package deal.

But.

Valjean is, and has always been, effortlessly handsome if you ignore most of his clothing choices. He is somehow more handsome with white hair than he was with brown, and yes Javert knew even then he was handsome because he has eyes. When he was sitting on the blanket during their date and smiled when talking about his plants or whatever, he held himself well. If he always held himself like that instead of hiding behind his shoulders all the time, his daughter wouldn’t have a problem finding him a date.

Javert realizes he doesn’t like the idea of Valjean dating someone else.

This… This is a problem.

He lights his cigarette quickly, needing the feeling of smoke and heat in his lungs. Damn. Shit. Fuck. This is ridiculous. Javert doesn’t date. He doesn’t even have friends outside of work. Even then, he doesn’t really like any of his colleagues. He’s been on his own most of his life and he likes it that way.

But he thinks about the soft texture of Valjean’s hair and the feeling of his fingers brushing his wrist and abruptly wants. It’s bizarre. Even when he was fucking around in his twenties, he didn’t really take a liking to anyone in specific. And of course, he has to go and start liking a guy who can’t even be assed to go get some damn therapy.

This must be stopped. He pulls out his phone. Calls Valjean.

‘Call me Jean.’

Valjean picks up on the second ring. “Javert?”

Shit. Even his voice is nice. Javert never noticed that before.

“Hey,” Javert says. He takes a drag of his cigarette to calm his sudden nerves. “Just checking in to see how your breakup speech to your daughter is going.”

“Breakup—? Oh.” Valjean is quiet for a moment. “I… didn’t realize we were done.”

“I think the picnic thing went pretty well. Until the fucking rain. But the main part was good.”

“I… I admit I’m not sure how to go about breaking up with you.”

“I’m sure you can tell her something you don’t like about me,” Javert says. “I’m ugly, I’m stubborn, I’m rude, I’m overbearing, I don’t have enough time in my life for a relationship… Pick a few. It’s not hard.”

“I don’t think you’re ugly,” Valjean says. “And you’re not as rude or overbearing as you think you are.”

It makes Javert’s face warm for some reason. He takes another drag of his cigarette.

“That’s not the point,” Javert says, trying not to sound so obviously flustered. “I have many negative assets, Valjean. Pick some that you hate and tell her that we couldn’t handle each other. I seriously don’t have time for a relationship. And you need so much help that you refuse to take yourself and it’s annoying as fuck.”

He desperately tries not to think of what Valjean would be like after getting some therapy. Happy, proud, handsome… Probably wouldn’t give Javert a second glance. The smoke of his cigarette is bitter on his tongue.

“Well…” He can practically hear Valjean wincing over the phone. “Ah, I’ll try. I’ll say we parted amicably so she won’t go after you. Again.”

“Thanks,” Javert says, letting his cigarette burn down to the filter. “Seriously, Valjean. Go get some therapy. You won’t regret it.”

“I’m fine.”

This is exactly why he doesn’t want to date Valjean.

“Fine. Whatever. Be miserable,” Javert mutters. “See if I care.”

He takes one last drag, makes a face at the taste of the filter burning, and crushes it under his heel.

“So… this is it,” Valjean says. “I thought we would do this in person.”

“Over the phone is fine,” Javert says. “You don’t have to be bothered with me anymore.”

“You weren’t a bother,” Valjean says. “I… It was nice.”

Javert scoffs. “I’m not nice.”

“I know,” Valjean says softly, so quiet Javert has a hard time hearing him. “But… it was nice. For me. Thank you for going along with it.”

“No problem,” Javert says. “I… had a surprisingly good time at the park.”

“Really?” Valjean asks hopefully. “That’s good.”

“And you?” Javert doesn’t know why he’s asking. He shouldn’t care.

“I had fun,” Valjean answers. He hesitates. “Do… do you still hate me?”

Javert pauses. Does he still hate Valjean? He hates nearly everyone. In fact, it’s remarkable when he can find someone he can tolerate. When did Valjean go from being his most hated foe to being tolerable? Even with his insistence on not dealing with his problems?

This is exactly why this has to stop.

“Not so much,” Javert admits. “You’re still the most annoying person I know, but no, I don’t think I hate you.”

“Good,” Valjean says with clear relief. “That’s good.”

“Well. Good luck with your daughter.”

Valjean sighs. “Yeah. Cosette will be so disappointed.”

Javert thinks about again insisting that he get some therapy, but it’s not his problem. He probably won’t see Valjean again after this. They managed to avoid each other so far, after all. Paris is a big city.

“Tell her that you don’t need a relationship to fix you,” Javert says. “Because seriously, you don’t. No one does. Considering your anxiety, I think what she’s doing with pushing you to meet people is making it worse.”

“I know,” Valjean says softly. “She won’t listen. She’s stubborn.”

Javert runs a hand down his face. “Then figure something out. I don’t know. I’m not your keeper.”

“Well,” Valjean says. “I guess this is goodbye?”

“I guess,” Javert agrees. “Bye.”

“Goodbye, Javert. Have a wonderful life. Day.”

Javert just knows Valjean thinks he’s embarrassing himself even though what he said is perfectly fine.

“You too,” Javert says, refusing to think what Valjean would consider a ‘wonderful life’ for someone like Javert. Would Valjean be there? Wide shoulders and white hair, with big warm hands calloused from work?

He isn’t thinking about it.

He hangs up before they can end up in an endless cycle of goodbyes. Jesus. He runs a hand down his face. He’s done with Valjean, washed his hands of him for the second time. Maybe this time Valjean will actually leave him alone.

Even if Javert suddenly doesn’t want him to.

Cosette is, as Valjean expected, upset about his “breakup” with Javert. She gives him a whole month to ‘get over him’, which Valjean is grateful for, as he does wander around the house and the garden wondering what Javert is doing at random moments during the day. Javert doesn’t hate him and, while he never had the chance to say the words, Valjean thinks he can forgive Javert for all the hurt they have caused each other over the years. He would like to say the words. Javert would probably be annoyed with him, but Valjean still wants to.

It’s been two months and Cosette is back to trying to set him up with strangers that Valjean would rather not talk to. Instead of being strictly female, now Cosette is sending men his way as well after she weaseled out that Valjean doesn’t really have a preference for either gender. He notices the majority are tall and dark, although being taller than Valjean is no great feat. He thinks Cosette’s trying to find someone who looks like Javert, which is pointless. Valjean does not care overmuch for looks. Javert has many other assets going for him other than his looks, which even Valjean can only describe as not very handsome even if he doesn’t think Javert is ugly either. Valjean thinks he could get used to Javert’s face though, if given enough time. He still hasn’t seen him smile, not for real.

He keeps thinking about Javert, how much easier things were between them than it is between him and the strangers Cosette finds. Javert can be nice, although Valjean is certain if he points it out Javert would endeavor to not be nice at all. He never asked about Valjean’s issues except that day at the museum and simply worked around him after that. Valjean appreciated it. Javert even supplied him with the list of therapists Valjean isn’t going to use, but it was oddly thoughtful of him. Like he cared or something.

He probably actually does, now that Valjean thinks about it. He seemed to be upset that Valjean wasn’t using his pardon to its furthest extent, even shouted at him about it. How paradoxical. To not care while caring quite a bit. He doesn’t understand how Javert can pull that off, but he does.

Still. He thinks about Javert more than he should. He wants to see Javert’s hair down when it’s dry. He probably looks very regal. It’s likely a workplace hazard to have it down though, which is probably why he keeps it up to begin with. Javert is good at making decisions. Valjean isn’t. Like the park date. They would make a good pair.

Valjean stops petting Toussaint. She meows in protest and bumps her head into his hand.

He wants Javert to be with him. To date him for real. To even live with him and have Javert do his share of the work around the house and simply telling Valjean what else he wants done. Valjean frequently dithers between two options; Javert never does. He wants to run his hands through Javert’s long hair. He wants to hold his hand. He wants to walk in the gardens and talk about nothing important with him.

“Toussaint,” Valjean says miserably.

She meows.

“I think I like him.”

She butts her head into his hand again. He continues to pet her.

“I shouldn’t like him,” Valjean says. “He caused me so much pain but… it wasn’t really his fault, was it? He was just trying to do the right thing. I can’t fault him for that.”

Toussaint purrs in his lap.

“It’s not his fault I did something stupid and got myself arrested. It’s not his fault Jeanne’s kids were hungry,” Valjean continues to himself. “It’s not his fault I am- was a wanted man. He let me go. He pardoned me. Even if it went against everything he knew… He still did it. Because he’s trying to do the right thing.”

He lapses into silence again, only broken by Toussaint purring like a motorbike.

The next day, he has another blind date, because of course he does. He still can’t get Javert out of his head, which distracts him enough that he doesn’t flee at the sight of someone approaching him.

“Jean Valjean?”

Valjean looks up. The first thing he notices is that the man is handsome. He has a pair of silver-framed rectangular glasses on his face. He wears a grey suit, like a businessman. His tie is blue.

“My name is Navir.” He takes a seat next to Valjean without asking and extends his hand.

Valjean puts on a fake smile he knows isn’t convincing and shakes it. Navir’s handshake is strong and sure and just a little bit painful. He keeps their hands clasped for longer than Valjean is comfortable with.

“Jean,” Valjean says, then winces. “But… you already know that.”

Navir laughs. It’s a pleasant sound, but Valjean is sure that he’s the one being laughed at. Valjean moves both his hands under the table so it’s not so obvious he’s digging his nails into his palms in anxiety.

“H-how do you know Cosette?” Valjean asks, because honestly, where does Cosette find these people?

“I worked with the Les Amis law group a while back,” Navir says, leaning back in a confident way that only makes Valjean more aware of how awkward he is. “I’m a web designer.”

“Ah,” Valjean says, not quite knowing what a web designer does exactly. Designs websites, sure, but Valjean has no idea what kind of work goes into that. “I’m… retired.”

Navir smiles. His teeth are white and straight and perfect and, to Valjean, slightly predatory. “What did you do before you retired?”

Valjean looks away. “I ran a factory.”

“Oh? What did you make?”

Valjean hates this. He’s far too aware about the article Javert somehow got printed all those years ago about how he arrested a wanted criminal masquerading as a factory owner in Montreuil-sur-Mer that blew up and was popular for a few weeks in all the papers. Someone might remember that, after all, and Valjean is too anxious to deal with someone calling him out in public.

“J-just trinkets,” Valjean says with a nervous smile. “Nothing too notable.” He looks down at his hands, again on the table. His fingers are already picking at his nails without him realizing.

“But you were successful?” Navir asks. “Must have been, running a factory in this country instead of importing from China.”

“It was a long time ago,” Valjean mumbles.

“At least you created some jobs,” Navir says. “Unlike most factories nowadays, letting the Chinese and the Indians steal our labor.”

Valjean keeps a stiff, polite smile on his face. He wants to leave. Navir continues on about the economy and politics and his rather boring-sounding job other things that Valjean doesn’t hear over the roaring in his ears. He’s not good at this. His heart is beating fast in his chest and he’s so anxious that he’s afraid to get up to escape because he’s probably too dizzy to stand. He doesn’t like Navir. He wants to sit in silence or talk about things other than politics like maybe how nice the weather has been lately or his cat or some other neutral topic.

Navir seems to wind down and Valjean does not know what to say. Maybe something calming.

“So…” Speaking was a mistake. Valjean never should have opened his mouth. “D-do you like animals?”

“What?” Navir asks.

“Sorry,” Valjean apologizes. “I just… I have a cat. D-do you have any pets?”

“No,” Navir says dismissively. “I’m too busy for a pet. And they get fur all over the place; far too dirty for me.”

Valjean feels like even more of a fool. “O-oh,” he says awkwardly.

Navir reaches for his hand. Valjean watches it happen almost in slow motion, screaming at himself to pull away, but he doesn’t and Navir takes his hand. Runs his thumb over his knuckles in a way that makes Valjean’s skin crawl. Valjean’s face is hot in embarrassment and shame.

“You’re cute when you blush,” Navir says with a smile that is far more familiar than Valjean is comfortable with.

Valjean’s face only gets hotter. If only he could make his excuses and leave, tell this Navir that he is decidedly not interested in him…. But he’s a coward. Unable to even advocate for himself when he needs to. How pathetic.

Someone sits in the chair next to him.

“Hey, Jean.”

Valjean looks up.

“Javert,” Valjean says, sure that everyone can hear the relief in his voice. “I- I didn’t expect to see you here.”

Javert holds up a disposable coffee cup. “This place has decent coffee. Not as good as the place near the courthouse, but it’s alright.

“Excuse me,” Navir says, clearly annoyed. “This is a private conversation.”

Javert snorts. “Sure.” He turns back to Valjean. “You owe me coffee. Let’s get lunch and I’ll call it even.”

Valjean’s hand is more or less trapped in Navir’s strong grip, but he’s more than happy to ignore him in favor of Javert. “Oh, from the time with the museum?”

“Yeah.”

“This is a date!” Navir says, glaring at Javert. “Who do you think you are, butting in like this?”

“Detective Inspector Javert of the first precinct of Paris,” Javert answers with a raised eyebrow. “And with the way you’re harassing Jean here, I don’t think I’m interrupting anything.”

“I’m not harassing—!”

“Is this guy bothering you?” Javert asks Valjean, entirely ignoring Navir.

“Ah, y-yes,” Valjean answers, looking at the floor.

Javert makes some motion with his coffee as if to say, ‘see?’. “He hates these things. Tell Cosette to fuck off and leave her father in peace. The last thing he needs is strangers coming onto him.”

Javert then puts down his coffee and physically extracts Valjean’s hand, holding it in his own. He doesn’t let go immediately and Valjean is more than happy to cling to him. Already, he’s feeling better with Javert championing him.

“He could have told me that himself!” Navir says, standing up. “You didn’t have to go putting words in his mouth!”

Javert huffs a silent laugh. “I’ve known him for like three decades and he’s obviously in distress. It’s not hard to figure out. I’m surprised he hasn’t gone nonverbal honestly.”

Valjean colors, remembering the day at the museum he had to talk to Javert through text because he couldn’t make his voice work. He thought he had hidden it well, but apparently not.

Navir shoots one more glare at Javert, then turns to leave.

Valjean sinks into his seat with relief, one hand over his face.

“You alright there, Valjean?”

Valjean shrugs, knowing Javert would only shout at him if he said he was fine when he clearly isn’t. He’s exhausted from being so tense for all the twenty minutes that he endured in Navir’s presence.

Javert hums.

They sit in silence for what feels like a long time while Valjean gets himself under control. He’s still anxious, being required to be in front of strangers in public will do that, but it’s better with Javert next to him.

Then he realizes he’s still holding Javert’s hand.

“I’m so sorry!” Valjean says, releasing him. “I- I didn’t realize I never let go, I’m sorry—”

“Stop apologizing,” Javert says with a tired look. “It’s fine. Do you need to hide again?”

Valjean checks himself over. While being in public right now isn’t comfortable, he can bear it without feeling like he’s going to have a breakdown.

“I don’t think so,” Valjean answers. “But… if you could… stay a little longer…”

“I’m on my lunch break,” Javert says. “I’ve got time.”

Javert sips his coffee, looking out at the rest of the café, and Valjean smiles at him. That’s oddly considerate of him. Then Valjean gets embarrassed that he’s smiling at Javert and ends up smiling at the table instead.

“How many is this since we broke up?” Javert asks.

“Six,” Valjean answers. “She gave me a month to get over you.” Except he didn’t get over Javert, it’s actually worse. And holding Javert’s hand earlier was nice, even grounding. He hopes he isn’t making an idiot out of himself.

Javert makes a face. “Ugh. How can you stand it? Wait, don’t answer that.”

“I- I know Cosette means well…” Valjean starts.

“I’m doubting that,” Javert mutters. “This matchmaking thing has gone on long enough. Clearly, this isn’t working. She should try another method if she’s so set on this.”

“Like what?” Valjean asks, trying not to be miserable about it. It comes out in his voice anyway. “I’ve tried to get her to stop, believe me.”

“Don’t worry, I do.” Javert huffs. “Seriously, she could sign you up for a class or something. Kitting or painting or whatever the fuck you do in your spare time. It doesn’t have to be like this.”

Valjean doesn't know what to say to that and looks at the table. There is silence between them for long minutes, but it isn’t as uncomfortable as Valjean was expecting. In fact, it’s almost nice.

“Thank you for saving me today,” Valjean says quietly. “I- I don’t know what I would have done if you hadn’t come along.”

“No problem,” Javert says. “That guy looked like he was a dick.”

Valjean smiles sadly. “He kind of was.” He sighs. “They all kind of are. I don’t know how Cosette keeps finding these… extroverted people. I think they’re all related to her husband’s law firm.”

Javert huffs a silent laugh. “I can see pushy people like that guy coming from a law firm, both customers and employees.”

A fond smile flashes over Valjean’s face, then he remembers who he’s talking to and hides it away.

“So are your dates always at this café?” Javert asks.

“Usually. Sometimes elsewhere, but this place is popular.” Something Valjean rather dislikes, all these people staring at a man sitting alone, but he is helpless to change things.

“And around lunch?”

“Yes. Why do you ask?”

Javert shifts in his seat. “Could save you more often.”

Valjean smiles brilliantly at him, unable to stop himself. “Really?”

Javert sips his coffee and doesn’t look at him. “Yeah, I mean. They have good coffee here. And it’s not that far away from the prefecture.” He glances at Valjean. “You should be enjoying your freedom, not be trapped in a café with someone who’s coming onto you every week or whatever.” He huffs and looks away. “Therapy would help you learn to stand up for yourself and tell these people to fuck off, you know.”

Valjean’s looks down and fiddles with picking at his nails. “I’m fine,” he says. “I… don’t want someone else in my head.”

Javert mutters something under his breath, no doubt a complaint. “Whatever. Fine. Not my problem.” He finishes his coffee. “Lunch?”

Valjean looks down at his lap to hide his smile. “I’d like that.”

Javert doesn’t know why he went looking for Valjean in various cafés near where they first met. He doesn’t know why he rescued Valjean just now. He doesn’t know why he offered to rescue Valjean in the future. He doesn’t know why he subtly arranges his work schedule so he has more time with Valjean during lunch. He should be avoiding Valjean, stopping this affliction that ails him whenever he even thinks about the man. Gisquet still thinks he's dating someone even when Javert tells him that they broke up. Smiles at him encouragingly whenever Javert leaves particularly snappish. He’s annoying.

He snarls at himself every time he goes to look at the clock, anticipating lunch. Anticipating the next time he’ll see Valjean. He tells himself that this is stupid, that Valjean doesn’t want him around, that someday Valjean is going to get tired of him.

But Valjean smiles at him in relief every time, green eyes bright and thankful, and Javert is hopelessly addicted to those smiles. Damn him.

Cosette sets Valjean up on dates about once a week and all of them are dicks. Coming onto Valjean even when he’s visibly uncomfortable, taking his hand, one woman even touched his face and Valjean had flinched away before Javert could get to his table. Sometimes they take his hand and it takes everything in Javert to not snarl at them. Sometimes Javert removes Valjean’s hand from his date’s himself, and then enjoys the feeling of calloused skin on his own until Valjean finds the courage to pull away. Javert rather wishes he didn’t, which is weird because he hates PDA with a passion in both himself and others, but he thinks he would like to hold hands with Valjean.

It’s fucking ridiculous is what it is. He snarls at himself in the mirror, taking note of his crooked teeth, his horrible smile, his skin that is not light enough to be pretty but not dark enough to be handsome either. He’s ugly. Always has been, always will be, and someday Valjean will realize that Javert’s insides are just as ugly as his outsides and not want anything to do with him. He shouldn’t want anything to do with him in the first place.

At work, he has noticed himself making less arrests and becomes less inclined to extract punishment. Yes, he still returns lost property and tracks down thieves, but he tries to understand what made them steal in the first place. He thinks about Valjean, how he stole to feed his family, and tries to do better. That was almost forty years ago, yet the laws haven’t changed. He thinks about the protests, two years ago now, and thinks those students might have been on the right track.

He spends his nightly walks with his hands stuffed in the pockets of his coat and his chin buried in his collar, muttering to himself about change. What the hell can he do to fix the flaws he now sees, in himself and in the law? He’s helpless, and if there’s anything Javert hates more than criminals, it’s feeling helpless.

He thinks about talking to Valjean about it but finds himself shying away from that kind of conversation. He’s not ready for a deep talk with him. He doesn’t know if he’ll ever be. Valjean smiles at him sometimes and it makes Javert flustered, he has no idea how Valjean hasn’t noticed that yet, but they’re not friends. They’re not at the point where Javert feels comfortable conferring in Valjean about his flaws and the questions he has about what the fuck he should do with his life now that he’s doubting the law. It leaves a bitter taste on his tongue that the justice he though he has been serving for thirty-odd years isn’t justice at all.

Still. He distracts himself with Valjean. Valjean, who smiles at him sometimes. Valjean, who flushes at the smallest comment, who laughs softly when Javert insults his would-be suitors. Valjean, who Javert wants to just maybe date for real, although he’s not quite sure how to go about that, even with the insurmountable gap of their pasts between them. At least he knows that Valjean is into men, which is more than he expected considering Valjean’s Catholicism. Javert doesn’t know shit about religion, but he respects Valjean’s unwavering faith. Javert used to have faith like that, in the law, but no longer. Thinking about it has him scowling at nothing and flexing his fingers like claws.

He thinks about retiring. There have been officers younger than him who have retired, so it wouldn’t be unusual. But Javert hesitates. Surely there can be something he can still do to enforce good. Gisquet would miss him; they’re friendly although Javert would by no means call them friends. Javert has no fucking idea what he would do with so much time on his hands. Find another job? His savings aren’t large and he does live in the city with its ridiculously high rent and he’s unwilling to move to a smaller town because he likes Paris, but what else would he be good for? He hates reading even when it doesn’t give him headaches from his contacts, mostly because he’s slow at it and has just enough dyslexia for longer words to trip him up. He supposes if he studies, he could be a defense lawyer. However, he hates dealing with people and lawyers deal with people all the time. In addition, he’s not very charismatic and thinks he would make an awful lawyer.

He walks circles around the city in his long grey coat with a scowl on his face, torn between what he should do. He’s never faced a decision like this before. Even that night on the bridge, he hadn’t really been deciding. He was copping out because he couldn’t make one, couldn’t fathom a world where the law was wrong. He knows differently now. Valjean made him see, and while he still hates Valjean a little bit for making his life harder with this new realization, he somehow doesn’t regret it.

“Do you want to take a walk?” Javert asks Valjean one day. It’s maybe the fourth or fifth time Javert has saved Valjean from his dates. “I’m sick of staring at these same four walls.”

“Hm? If… if that’s what you want,” Valjean answers hesitantly.

“You don’t have to say yes just to appease me,” Javert grumbles. “Yes or no, that’s all I’m asking.”

“Then… Yes.”

Javert glances over at Valjean. Valjean is looking at his lap, hands clasped. He’s picking at his nails again. Javert wonders if Valjean would consider putting a clear coat of nail polish on them so they’re stronger and healthier and not so brittle like Javert does his own, then thinks that’s stupid because he shouldn’t want to hang out with Valjean. Unfortunately, he does, and it infuriates him.

He stands up, finishing the coffee that Valjean bought him. “Come on, then.”

“Won’t you be cold?” Valjean asks, and Javert scowls. It’s winter and it’s cold outside and Javert keeps forgetting his worn grey scarf at home because the last time he wore it the ends of it got caught up in his stupid office chair and pulled some of the threads or yarn or whatever out. He’s fixed it, kind of, but it’s not in its usual place so he never remembers to bring it with him. His office chair is still broken. He’s thinking about requisitioning a new one, but nothing else is wrong with it except for the fucking wheels, so it would just be a waste of money.

“I’ll be fine,” Javert says. “Walking will keep me warm.”

Valjean is in a wool coat that, thankfully, isn’t some horrible bright color or another. Instead, it’s a nice green. Like leaves. It makes his eyes look greener than they are. He looks very handsome in it and Javert isn’t looking at him much because he’s sure Valjean will catch him staring. He has a red scarf, which doesn’t exactly go with the green coat, but Javert is willing to let it pass this time.

The weather outside is windy, lending a chill to the already cold temperatures. Javert flips his collar up to protect his bare neck from the worst of it. Valjean is staring at him.

“What?” Javert asks irritably.

“N-nothing,” Valjean says quickly, looking away.

Javert watches him, but only Valjean’s cheeks turn pink and he doesn’t say anything else. It’s probably the cold.

“Come on,” Javert says. “Let’s go.”

“Where do you want to go?” Valjean asks.

Javert grunts. “I don’t know. I just want to get moving.”

Valjean thinks. “Do you want to go to the Luxembourg gardens?”

“Good a place as any.”

Javert lets Valjean lead the way. He’s walking slower than Javert would like, but Javert’s a fast walker and annoyingly he doesn’t want to force Valjean to keep up with him.

“S-so,” Valjean says a few minutes in. “You said once that you like walking.”

“I did.”

Valjean hesitates, eyes hidden behind outgrown bangs. “Well, um, you never said where.”

“I walk for my commute,” Javert answers. “Paris traffic is the worst so I hate using the bus. The subway is a little better, but I like walking. Keeps my mind calm.”

“But… where do you walk?”

Javert shrugs. “Around. I usually stick to the main streets. If I’m in uniform I try to avoid the touristy parts because they stop me all the fucking time and my English sucks and just—” He makes a sound of frustration and makes a vague gesture with his hand before stuffing it back in his pocket. “I fucking hate tourists.”

Valjean makes a soft sound that could have been a laugh. Javert wishes he could have heard it better, then reprimands himself. He’s supposed to be trying to kill this thing.

…But he keeps visiting Valjean once a week during lunch, so really, he’s doing a terrible job of it.

They walk in silence for another few minutes.

“I… I walk to keep my mind quiet too,” Valjean says quietly.

“I can imagine,” Javert mutters. “See a damn therapist. Get that anxiety of yours under control and your mind won’t be so busy.”

Valjean flinches, like he’s been doing every time Javert not so gently suggests therapy, but doesn’t say anything. Javert growls wordlessly.

“Seriously, Valjean,” Javert says. “I wouldn’t be so fucking insistent if you would just do it. People more fucked up than you have been to therapy and gotten better. I’m not saying it can solve everything but talk therapy and medication can work fucking wonders.”

Valjean shakes his head, burrowing deeper into his scarf. Javert scowls. Stupid man. He would be so much happier if he worked through his own trauma. Maybe then he’d tell Javert to fuck off as he should have ages ago and then Javert won’t have to deal with his affliction.

“Do… do you like parks?” Valjean asks nervously, his anxious stutter on the edge of his words.

Javert shrugs, letting the subject of Valjean going to therapy drop. For now. “Sure. Less people, but I like my walks long and I don’t like walking in circles much. Too much of the same scenery. I usually pick directions at random when I’m out walking in the city.”

“I don’t mind,” Valjean says quietly. “The scenery, that is. I… like checking in on how the plants are growing.”

Javert huffs. It’s almost affectionate. He’s horrified to hear it as it comes out of his mouth. Then he mutters, “Fucking of course you do,” quietly under his breath.

He glances at Valjean. Valjean’s cheeks are pink from the cold, his lips chapped and red, his soft white hair blowing this way and that. Javert wants to touch his hair again. It’s stupid. He shouldn’t want to touch Valjean’s hair. Soft under his fingers. Like cashmere.

He reminds himself that he is an idiot for not killing this stupid affliction that’s having him compare Valjean to expensive fabric when he had the chance.

Realized too late I could have had a Halloween episode :C Oh well! This fic is now 21 chapters old! It can drink in my country!

Having Javert’s company on a walk in one of his more frequently visited parks of Paris is surprisingly nice. Javert’s tall, intimidating figure with his arms crossed harshly over his chest has people avoiding the two of them. Valjean likes that. Javert can act as his shield from people as Valjean hides behind him in safety. It makes his chest warm every time he dares glance at Javert’s face when provided with such shelter. Javert is still scowling, but he doesn’t look to be angry or upset. Valjean is starting to think that Javert’s face is simply like that.

They walk for maybe fifteen minutes in silence. It’s a nice silence. No demands for conversation or interaction. Just being in the presence of another is enough. Valjean carefully glances at Javert again from the corner of his eye. He’s decided that he likes how tall Javert is, how sharp his dark eyes are and how they seem to see everything, how certain his hands are. Javert has surprisingly elegant hands. It doesn’t match with the rest of him, but Valjean is starting to find everything about him… charming. Which isn’t a word he ever expected to associate with Javert of all people considering their pasts, but here he is. Thinking Javert charming.

Javert hasn’t been charming in the past. He was cruel, merciless, punishing. Valjean hasn’t seen much of that since meeting in the coffee shop the first time. Even when Javert does speak of his work, halting and awkward with constant looks at Valjean as if he is wary of triggering Valjean’s panic again, Valjean doesn’t think Javert is the same man as the one before the bridge. He seems to deliberate with himself more, think through his reasoning before he decides on a suitable action when it comes to crime. He doesn’t rush through, assuming everything appears to be in order as he did before.

Valjean can forgive him. Does forgive him. Everything in the past was between two different men. Valjean wonders if Javert can forgive him as well.

“Ah, Javert?” Valjean asks hesitantly.

Javert looks over at him, dark eyes bright and inquisitive. “Hm?”

Valjean looks away from the intensity of his stare. He’s growing to like the way Javert looks at him now, not quite examining him as if to look for lies, but not entirely unlike it either. It’s simply how Javert looks at everything. He takes in every detail no matter how mundane. Even the coffee Valjean is always buying him. Even the plants in the gardens.

“I…” Valjean swallows. “I wanted to say… I forgive you.”

Javert huffs. “For what?”

“For everything.”

Javert stops. His eyes, somehow, grow sharper as he looks at Valjean in confusion. “What?”

Valjean forces himself to look Javert in the eye, to better convey how serious he is. “I forgive you for all that you did before you pardoned me.”

Javert frowns, searching him. “What?”

“I forgive—”

“Yes, I know what you said,” Javert says with a scowl. He pulls his grey coat tighter in agitation. “How can you say that? After everything I did to hurt you? After all I put you through?”

Valjean looks at him. There is something unfamiliar in Javert’s expression. He is confused, possibly angry, but there is something else that Valjean does not understand.

“Yes,” Valjean answers. “Javert, I forgive you.”

Javert clenches his teeth, twisting his face into an ugly scowl. His wide nostrils flair. “I don’t accept your forgiveness.”

Valjean frowns. “That’s… not how this works.”

“I can’t be forgiven!” Javert shouts. “How deeply have I hurt you? Look at you! PTSD so bad that you can barely speak to a stranger, and you forgive me?”

“I do.”

Javert stomps ahead of him for several paces, then abruptly turns. “I refuse! I am the one who put that fear in you, Valjean. I’m a huge part of the reason why you’re so fucked up. And you forgive me?”

Valjean looks at him, wondering what Javert thought of their fake dates and all the lunches they take together after Javert scares off the suitor of the week. How can he not see that he has been forgiven for months?

“I forgive you,” Valjean says again.

“How?”

Valjean frowns. “What?”

“How can you forgive me for acts that I can’t even forgive myself for?”

Valjean never thought of Javert as a man with regrets. He is so straightforward, so streamlined and efficient in his function that Valjean assumed that Javert simply accepted everything as it comes. Yes, he broods frequently, but once he makes a decision? He is never more sure.

But to hear that Javert has clearly thought back on his actions and has found them wrong… Valjean doesn’t know what to think.

“I know you are a different man now,” Valjean tells him. “I know you would not hurt another as you did me because of- of the night on the bridge. I knew that your thinking would change after that. How could it not? You saw your actions from a different perspective and you found yourself not as perfect as you thought you were. You couldn’t revert back even if you wanted to. Your honor wouldn’t let you. You’re an honest man, Javert, and you can be kind when you want to be.” Valjean looks down and away, finding his fingers fidgeting with the end of his red scarf. “It… it really means a lot to me that you come to rescue me from Cosette’s setups. Even if you come just to spend time with me… I’m thankful. S-so I knew I had forgiven you.”

Javert is silent for many moments. His face is still scowling, nostrils still flared, but there is only confusion in his eyes. Valjean looks away, cheeks heating in embarrassment.

“I am still a policeman,” Javert says. “I am still cruel. I still do bad things.”

“Not because you want to,” Valjean tells him. “It’s your job, it’s what you’ve always done. I don’t blame you for not quitting when I don’t know your mind or your financial situation. I know it used to be your life, but…” Valjean looks up. “It seems like it’s just a job now. A job that you’re good at, yes, but you… you don’t seem to agree with what you have to do.”

Javert’s lip curls. “You don’t know shit about me.”

Valjean flinches. “I’m sorry, I- I didn’t mean to presume anything. If I’m wrong, please tell me.”

“Why?”

“What?”

“Why are you asking me this?” Javert asks, curling his fists into his jacket tightly. “Why are you forgiving me when I don’t deserve it?”

“But… you do deserve it,” Valjean says. “You didn’t have to pardon me. I was ready to be rearrested, still am, should that be what you decide. I’m grateful you didn’t, but… I still don’t know why you got me that pardon.”

“Because you’re a good fucking person, Valjean,” Javert growls. “You threw a wrench into my entire system of thinking and blew it to pieces.” He takes a breath, then lets it out in a huff. “Fine. You’re right. It is just a job. I’ve seriously considered retiring, but I’ll need another job to support myself if I quit. I don’t know what else I can do.” He glances at Valjean. “I still don’t deserve your forgiveness. I’m still a bastard. I can’t undo all the arrests I’ve made or go back in time to examine all my former cases. I don’t know what the fuck I should be doing.”

Javert huffs again, then digs a pack of cigarettes and a lighter out of his pocket. “Do you mind? I’m all worked up now.”

“Go ahead.”

“Do you smoke?”

“No… I actually, ah… The smell gets to me. Gives me headaches.”

Javert lights his cigarette anyway. “Stand upwind from me then. Fuck.” He mutters something under his breath. It’s probably a curse, but Valjean’s not sure.

“I still forgive you,” Valjean says. “Are we…?” He shakes his head, heat rising to his face before he can finish the question. They’re not friends. Javert would never want to be friends with him. “N-never mind.”

Javert exhales a plume of smoke. “What? Just ask your question.”

Valjean shakes his head quickly. “I-it’s nothing.”

“You’re stutter is back,” Javert says. “You only stutter when you’re anxiety is through the roof.”

Valjean cringes.

“Just ask. What’s the worst that could happen?”

“You c-could hate me,” Valjean answers quietly.

“Did that already. I don’t hate you anymore.” Javert’s face twists in an uncomfortable way, but Valjean doesn’t know what it means.

“But… you could hate me again,” Valjean says. “I… don’t want you to hate me. It would… be worse a second time.”

Javert sighs and looks at him with exasperation. “I promise I won’t hate you.” He raises his cigarette to his lips. “Fucking grew on me like a barnacle or some shit,” he mutters to himself. “Damn idiot.”

Valjean expects he wasn’t supposed to hear that, but it does make him feel better.

“O-okay…” Valjean takes a breath. The air smells faintly of cigarette smoke, despite the fact that he’s standing upwind of Javert. “Are… are we friends, Javert?”

Javert blinks at him for several moments, then scowls at the ground. He takes a drag of his cigarette. A second. He’s quiet for a long time. Valjean tugs at his sleeves anxiously.

“Are we friends,” Javert repeats. “Fuck if I know how to be a friend, Valjean. Haven’t had many of those. I don’t like people.”

“I’d like to be your friend,” Valjean says quietly. Maybe more than that, if the affection that rises in him whenever he thinks of Javert’s warm, elegant hands or his long black hair is any indication. But Javert wouldn’t want a partner like Valjean, even if his feelings are not those of hate. Javert deserves someone as straightforward as himself. Not like Valjean, who can barely make a decision on where he wants to walk that day.

“Huh,” Javert says. “I’m probably not a good friend.”

“That’s okay,” Valjean says quickly. “I… I’m probably bad at it too.”

Javert looks at him. “You’re not so bad.”

Valjean looks away to hide the flush on his cheeks. “A-ah… D-do you think so?”

Javert snorts, smoke coming out his nose. “I don’t say shit I don’t mean, Valjean.”

Valjean’s cheeks heat further. He pulls at his sleeves again to cover his hands.

“You’re going to wear out the fabric like that,” Javert comments. “If your hands are cold then wear gloves.”

Valjean looks away. “It’s fine.”

Javert rolls his eyes.

“Are we friends though?” Valjean asks.

“I don’t know,” Javert answers with a scowl.

“But you come to the café to help me out,” Valjean says. “You could… come when I don’t have a date. I… I think I’d like that.”

“Why?” Javert asks. “Why the hell do you want anything to do with me? I made your life hell. I destroyed your career in Montreuil-sur-Mer. My entrance literally killed a woman who you were trying to save, and I didn’t give a shit because I though arresting you at any cost was worth it. Which it wasn’t.” He takes a drag of his cigarette. “That whole situation was fucked up and was entirely my fault. Why the fuck would you want to hang around me more than you have to?”

“I find you fascinating,” Valjean answers honestly. “Javert, you’re a different man now. If you’re really so torn up about the past, I’m willing to talk it through with you. It seems like you need it.”

“Not half as much as you do, though,” Javert says. “I don’t know nearly enough about psychotherapy to attempt to help you with your anxiety and shit. You’re the one who should see a therapist.”

“I’m… fine,” Valjean says, not even trying to make it sound like anything but a lie. “It… It might give me closure to talk it though with you, though.”

Javert raises an eyebrow. “Really? I would think it would bring up only bad memories.”

Valjean shakes his head. “No… It’s really just people that scare me. Strangers.” He forces a smile. “You’re not a stranger to me, Javert.”

Javert looks at him with something unreadable in his dark eyes. “We hardly know each other.”

Valjean glances away, not sure what that look means. “But we could. Friends?”

“Hm. I’ll think about it.”

Javert takes one last drag of his cigarette before dropping it on the pavement and snuffing it out with his shoe.

“You’re not going to just leave it there… are you?” Valjean asks with a note of distaste. Luxembourg is a nice park. It doesn’t need more litter.

Javert rolls his eyes but picks up his cigarette butt anyway. “Fine. Whatever. Where’s the nearest trash can?”

Valjean leads him down the path to where he knows there’s a few benches and tables. Javert flicks his cigarette butt into the trash. He rubs his hands together and pulls his coat right around his neck.

“Are you cold?” Valjean asks.

“We stopped walking,” Javert grumbles. “Walking keeps me warm.”

Valjean hesitates, then unwinds his scarf from his neck. It is rather cold out, even this late in the season.

“Here you go,” Valjean says.

Javert stares at him, unmoving.

Valjean hesitates again, then reaches up to wrap his red scarf around Javert’s neck. He feels like a fool, his face hot, but he doesn’t want Javert to be cold or argue with him about it.

“There you are,” Valjean says with a hesitant smile, tucking it snug around Javert’s neck. “Isn’t that better?”

Javert’s cheeks are flushed and he reaches up to touch the scarf with one hand. It’s not the best quality and about five or ten years old at this point, but Valjean likes it. He hopes Javert likes it too.

“How are you so kind?” Javert mutters. He burrows his face in the scarf as if to hide himself.

“It costs nothing to be kind,” Valjean answers. “And you deserve kindness, Javert.”

Javert searches him with his sharp eyes. “Hm.”

He doesn’t say anything more, lost in thought as they walk back to the café.

I am hoping this wraps up by 40k but boy have I been wrong before. I swear this is moving.

Valjean’s red scarf smells of musty earth and warmth with something like cloves about it. Javert keeps wearing it even though he shouldn’t because he can’t get enough of Valjean’s scent. It’s soft and worn and wearing thin in places, but Valjean lent it to him and Javert keeps forgetting to give it back. Gisquet comments, in an annoyingly knowing way, that it’s the first time he’s seen Javert in something other than black, grey, or blue in years. Javert flips him off, running to his desk to hide his flushed face.

This is ridiculous.

Valjean forgives him. The thought is unbelievable. Javert can’t even forgive himself. Thoughts of the past leave him angry and his tongue bitter when he goes back to pick through his life. Almost everything he did was wrong. Was it legal? Yes. Was it technically just? Probably. Was it good? Almost never. Yet Valjean, who he has hurt terribly, forgives him.

It doesn’t make any sense. He paces about his apartment with Valjean’s scarf around his neck trying to understand what goes on in that man’s mind. Javert can’t accept it. He’s barely done anything to atone for his mistakes, and no, pretending to date Valjean to keep his daughter off his back doesn’t count. Saving Valjean from his wannabe suitors doesn’t count either, mostly because Javert is doing it for selfish reasons as he doesn’t want anyone else to date Valjean. Even if Valjean would never want to date him.

Javert isn’t nice. He’s never been nice. He wasn’t ever treated with kindness so he never learned. Meanwhile, Valjean is kind. He even smiles at Javert sometimes. Javert doesn’t understand how Valjean can be so nice when Javert knows life wasn’t kind to Valjean. Maybe his daughter taught him? Or maybe he’s just like that. Javert doesn’t know. It confuses him.

It takes two weeks for Valjean’s scent to fade from the red scarf. Javert has been wearing it constantly, even indoors. Finally, Javert makes himself give it back. He should have done it two weeks ago.

“Oh, this?” Valjean says, sounding surprised. “I thought you liked it.”

Javert shrugs. “It’s nice, but I have my other one. I don’t need two.”

He means he doesn’t need it if it stops smelling faintly like mulch and cloves. What’s the point of keeping it if it doesn’t smell like Valjean anymore?

“Oh,” Valjean says. “Alright.”

Javert hopes he didn’t fuck something up.

“I think I might have a date today,” Valjean says, tucking the scarf away. “You came early.”

Of course he did. How else is he going to spend time with Valjean if he doesn’t come early?

“My schedule was free,” Javert says with a shrug. He sips his coffee. “This place is growing on me.”

Valjean smiles at him and Javert looks away before Valjean can notice how flustered it makes him.

“You said you wanted to talk about… the past,” Valjean says hesitantly. “Do you still…?”

Javert huffs, tensing up at even the reference to everything he did wrong, is possibly still doing wrong.

“Not really,” he mutters. “But yes, fine. Let’s talk.”

Valjean gives him an anxious smile. Javert makes himself keep looking at him this time, although he doesn’t feel like he deserves a smile from Valjean. Even a forced one.

“What do you have questions about?” Valjean asks.

“Everything,” Javert says, flicking hair out of his face dismissively. “I’m looking back and almost everything I did was either not making as much of a difference as I thought or was actively evil.”

Valjean frowns. “You’re not evil, Javert.”

Javert snorts. “Punishing the innocent is not evil? Throwing the poor and the needy in prison and thinking it just is not evil? Please, Valjean. I know what I was.” He swallows, looking away. “I’m trying to be better. I’ve only made like five serious arrests since the protests because I can’t imagine what reason anyone would have to deserve to be punished like you were.”

“I don’t think—”

“Don’t make excuses for me, not for what prisons are like,” Javert interrupts before Valjean can say something ridiculous. “Prisons are terrible, even now. The rehabilitation efforts are a fucking joke. The conditions are inhumane. No one deserves prison, except for maybe the people who built them.”

Valjean is quiet, looking into his lap and picking at his nails. “It… wasn’t that bad…”

Javert scoffs. “You literally have PTSD from almost twenty years of prison, Valjean. Don’t say stupid shit like that just to make me feel better.”

Valjean frowns but doesn’t object.

“I’ve been a police officer for almost twenty-five years, and a prison guard for five years before that. I’ve done awful things, now that I look back at them, that then I thought were just and good. I told myself I was cleaning up the streets, arresting the homeless and shit. What bullshit that was.” He scowls. “There are only a few people that I think should be arrested for real, although the only one you know is Thénardier. God, do I hate that bastard.”

“What would you do with people like him, if prison isn’t an option?” Valjean asks.

It’s a good question. Javert spends a minute scowling and tapping his fingers on his leg.

“Fuck if I know,” he answers at last. “Make a place specifically for rehabilitation, not a cesspool of violence and cruelty. Give people therapy, give them education, give the poor people money to pay the rent so they have a place to sleep. I don’t fucking know how to fix it, and even if I did, I don’t have the power to enact it.”

“You could always go into politics?” Valjean suggests.

Javert laughs, his harsh barking laugh hardly joyful. His lips twist into an ugly smile that show all his teeth. “Me? I’d be such a shit politician. I try to stay out of it as much as fucking possible.”

Valjean looks down at his lap, but Javert thinks he sees a smile. “Y-yes, well. It was only a suggestion.”

Javert snorts. “I’m not charismatic or handsome enough to be a public figure. I prefer working in the background anyway.” He waves a hand. “Either way, all I know is that prisons are fucking terrible and I shouldn’t be sending people to them just because they made a mistake or were desperate enough to steal or whatever. Hence, I don’t think I want to be an officer anymore. But,” he scowls, “there’s nothing else I’d be good for. Being in law enforcement was the only thing I could see myself doing so I don’t really have any other skill sets.”

“I’m sure you could find something,” Valjean says. “You’re very driven. I think you can be whatever you want to be.”

Javert snorts. “Yeah, right. I hate reading so that rules out basically every desk job around, and I’d be too restless without being out on patrol for part of the day as it is. I need to be active.”

Valjean hums. “I’ll try to think of something.”

“You don’t have to do that,” Javert says quickly. “I’m not telling you this to place a burden on you, Valjean.”

“Jean,” Valjean corrects. He makes eye contact for a moment, those damn green eyes seem to stare right into Javert’s soul, before looking down again.

Javert doesn’t know what to say. This is the second time Valjean has asked Javert to call him by his given name. Are they friends? Valjean asked that not so long ago and… yes, Javert thinks they’re friends. Kind of. Javert isn’t the person to ask about friendships.

“Sorry,” Valjean says after a moment. “You- you don’t have to.”

“Why?” Javert asks. “I don’t understand why you would want me to call you Jean. After all I’ve done to you?”

A smile flickers across Valjean’s face. “I forgive you. And besides.” He looks up, hopeful. “We’re friends… right?”

“I- I suppose so,” Javert says, taken aback. His face feels warm. He abruptly looks out the window. “I just… can’t imagine forgiving someone who hurt me as much as I’ve hurt you.”

“It wasn’t all you,” Valjean says. “It’s… it’s the laws. The corruption in the system. You were raised on it, never thought to question. So I don’t blame you, not really. You were just a product of your environment.”

“Hmm,” Javert hums. He crosses his arms over his chest. He wants a smoke. “Never thought of it like that. But still, I’m not the forgiving kind.”

“That’s okay. You don’t have to forgive me.”

Javert frowns. “Forgive you? For what?”

Valjean looks into his empty cup. “For breaking the law. For losing myself in anger in prison. For fooling you for all those months in Montreuil-sur-Mer. For knocking you unconscious that one time…”

Javert waves his hand. “Enough, you don’t have to—”

“Papa?”

Javert looks up. The girl from before is here, Valjean’s kid. Cosette. Javert only knows her name from the sheer amount of time Valjean spends talking about her.

Across from him, Valjean has gone pale.

“What… what did you mean about that?”

“A-about what?” Valjean asks, clearly aiming for innocent. However, his anxiety makes it clear he’s trying to distract her.

“Don’t play stupid with me,” Cosette says threateningly. “I know what I heard. You’ve been to prison?”

Valjean looks down, his hands hidden from view but Javert would bet they’re shaking with anxiety.

“This is why you should tell her things,” Javert says pointedly, crossing his arms.

Valjean shrugs, hair hiding his eyes. Javert suspects he’s gone nonverbal again.

“Do you mind if I explain?” Javert asks.

Valjean shrugs again. Javert makes a sound of frustration but takes it as a yes.

“You’re Javert, right?” Cosette asks.

“I’m sure you’ve heard only bad things.”

“No, Papa spoke highly of you.”

That doesn’t make any sense, but Javert isn’t going to think about it right now. He takes a breath.

“Jean was arrested for petty theft to feed his sister’s kids a little more than forty years ago,” Javert begins. “Originally, his sentence was five years. He was released nineteen years later with three almost successful escape attempts under his belt.”

The girl only looks at Valjean with confusion and sorrow.

Javert continues. “He didn’t have a good time as a recently released felon. Then he… met a priest? A bishop? Fuck, I don’t remember. He told me once. Didn’t do any more thieving after that, technically. Anyway, broke parole and committed identity fraud and technically tax evasion by creating a new identity for himself and moved north to Montreuil-sur-Mer. That’s where he met your mother, unless you somehow met her earlier?”

Valjean nods tightly, still looking at his lap.

“She was in his employ at his factory, and then was fired for some reason except Jean never approved that action,” Javert says. “I tried to arrest her for prostitution, but Jean interfered and overrode my authority with his mayor title.” He looks at Valjean. “And yes, I’m still pissed that you did that in public. Completely fucked my reputation in that town.”

Valjean doesn’t look up at him, but his jaw tightens, like a flinch. Javert rolls his eyes.

“Whatever. I remembered Jean from prison when I was a prison guard and between the thing with the sex worker and lifting a fucking car by himself to save a trapped man, I thought my suspicions were correct, and they were, but he slipped my grasp that time. Apparently, he adopted you and found a place to lay low in Paris. I was promoted and transferred back to Paris myself and didn’t see him for like ten years.” He tightens his arms on himself and looks away. “Then the protests… I should have died there, but Jean… he saved my life when he didn’t have to. Twice. Didn’t make any fucking sense, still doesn’t, but apparently, he forgives me for making his life hell which also doesn’t make any fucking sense. I got him a pardon since he’s a good person and not about to go breaking any more laws anytime soon.”

Javert shrugs, feeling uncomfortable with speaking for so long uninterrupted, not to mention giving a short version of his life with Valjean to a girl he doesn’t know.

“But… he said he just met you,” Cosette says. “At the café.”

Javert huffs. “Obviously, he was lying. He’s terrified of these blind dates you set up; he’s just really good at hiding it. The man could be a halfway decent grifter should he decide to go back to crime. Lied to my face for years in Montreuil.”

“But he needs to get out!” Cosette protests. “He shouldn’t be lonely.”

“So get him some friends,” Javert says irritably. “Sign him up for a class or a club. This one-on-one shit with assholes who can’t respect personal space really isn’t the way to do this. Especially if Jean thinks that somehow, I’m better company than they are.” He huffs. “Not everyone needs a romantic partner.”

Cosette frowns, like she wants to argue, but Javert waves her off.

“Let it go, let him live his life as he pleases,” Javert says. “If you want to help him, get him into some damn therapy for his severe anxiety and probable depression.” He checks his watch and stands. “My lunch is over. I’ve got to get back to the office.” He makes to leave, then pauses. “Let me know if you still want to meet up. I won’t blame you if you don’t.”

Valjean hesitates, then takes his hand. He squeezes it, warm and comforting. Javert swallows, not knowing what to do. He thinks it means that Valjean would still like to go to lunch with him. He doesn’t know how to feel about it.

“I’ll be off,” Javert says, then turns around to flee the café before Valjean’s daughter can question him about the past. He doesn’t know how to explain his own past actions other than that he was a colossal fuck-up and that he’s now trying to fix it. Somehow. He doesn’t want to think about it.

Cosette has a lot of questions for Valjean. So many that she takes a day off work just to come to Valjean’s home and ask all day long. Valjean is glad he never ended up telling Marius his past, even though he felt that he should have. Valjean is selfish, wanting to keep his daughter all to himself. Cosette never wanted to leave him alone, as all her blind dates have more than shown, so he’s almost grateful to Javert for forcing the issue. It takes many hours, some of them spent in tears, but eventually Cosette knows the whole of it. Everything from Jeanne’s children to his lie about dating Javert.

Unfortunately, armed with this new knowledge, Cosette agrees with Javert that he should see a therapist. He has an appointment next week with one of the therapists that Javert gave him the name of. Cosette is coming with him, supposedly as a comfort but he really knows she’s there to get his story out first thing, knowing her father would rather not talk about it.

“The point is to talk about it,” Cosette says when Valjean voices his objections. “Javert got you a pardon, so you don’t have to worry about anything! He wants you to be happy, Papa.”

Valjean doesn’t know how to feel about that, Javert wanting him to be happy. It stirs conflicting emotions in him. One, a fuzzy kind of warmth because he’s starting to realize more and more that he has feelings he’s too hesitant to name towards Javert. Two, an anxious dread that yet another thing is expected of him by a man who is known to be a perfectionist. Valjean doesn’t want to fail him. Three, confusion, because he still doesn’t know Javert very well and never knows what to do with himself in front of the man.

Still. Cosette has promised that the blind dates will stop. Valjean is so relieved he feels dizzy with it. It does, however, mean he will be going to someone to talk about all the things he doesn’t want to talk about. He isn’t looking forward to it.

“You’ll feel better about yourself after,” Javert says the next time they have lunch. He seemed surprised that Valjean still wanted to have lunch with him. Valjean doesn’t know how Javert doesn’t realize his motivations are motivated by more than platonic feelings. “It’s like pulling off a band aid, probably. Lay all your cards on the table and ask your therapist what to do. That’s their job.” Javert huffs. “Trust the professionals. They’ve seen people way worse than you.”

“Have… you ever seen a therapist?” Valjean asks hesitantly.

Javert’s face morphs into a particularly dreadful scowl. “Saw my partner killed once. It was mandatory. I probably needed it.”

He doesn’t say any more and Valjean doesn’t press.

“I see you found your scarf,” Valjean says instead.

Javert looks down at his grey scarf that has certainly seen better days. The fringe on one end is all ragged, but only noticeable if you happen to glance there.

Javert seems to catch him looking at the spot and scowls. “I ran over it with my damned stupid office chair.”

“Is the wheel still broken?”

Javert rolls his eyes and tugs on the damaged portion of his scarf. “What do you think?”

Valjean looks away and smiles. He’s learned over the weeks that Javert has many petty annoyances and will happily complain about them to no end. His office chair is one of them.

“You looked good in my red one,” Valjean says. “Do you want to keep it?”

Javert scoffs. “Red isn’t my color. I’m a winter kind of guy.”

“Winter?”

“Like the season. You’re an autumn guy.”

“What?”

Javert sighs. “Winters are cool colors, blacks and greys and blues. Autumns are warmer colors, like browns and darker greens and reds. Cosette is a summer person.”

“It’s… a fashion thing?”

Javert huffs, one side of his mouth lifting like a suggestion of a smile. “Yes, Jean, it’s a fashion thing.”

Valjean’s insides do a little wiggle every time Javert says his name, and it intensifies by realizing he just saw Javert smile. It was nice and lifted some of the age away from his face for a moment. It wasn’t very bright, but Valjean never thought it would be.

Javert is looking at him with an appraising eye. Valjean shifts uncomfortably.

“What?”

“I should take you shopping.”

“Oh, no,” Valjean says, sinking in his chair. “No, I’m fine. Please.”

Javert huffs another laugh and almost smiles again. “Maybe not today, but for the love of god, get some better clothes that actually fit.”

“These do fit…”

“They’re worn and the hems are coming undone. I think I saw a hole in your shirt the other day.”

Valjean winces.

Javert rolls his eyes. “I promise I won’t be too hard on you. You have money. It’s not the end of the world to wear new things once in a while.” He huffs. “One outfit, Jean. That’s all I’m asking.”

Shopping with Cosette is always an ordeal. She’s always urging him to buy things he doesn’t want to wear, like button up shirts with bold patterns on them and black coats and shoes with a slight heel to make him taller. He doesn’t want to be taller. He doesn’t want to wear black or button up shirts with bold patterns on them. He likes his plain shirts and jeans and his comfortable sneakers.

“We pick one store,” Javert says. “One store, one outfit, we’re done. I won’t even do shoes, shoes are a whole different thing. I don’t care about shoes.”

“Maybe…” Valjean doesn’t think Javert would have him try on ten different shirts just to pick none of them like Cosette does. Javert is far too impatient for that.

“We could go today, if you want,” Javert says. “It’s my day off.”

“Maybe… not today,” Valjean says. “I’ll think about it.”

Javert shrugs. “I’m not going to let this go. You said maybe. That’s technically a yes.”

“It’s not a yes,” Valjean argues. “It’s a maybe. A maybe is not a yes.”

“If it’s not a no, then it is kind of a yes, Jean. For something like this, at least.”

Valjean sighs. “It’s a maybe.”

Javert almost smiles at him, the corners of his eyes crinkling.

Valjean thinks he should smile more often.

Javert feels weird calling Valjean by his given name. It’s uncomfortably intimate, although it’s just a name and has no reason to feel weird at all. But Valjean likes it so Javert will just have to deal with being uncomfortable.

The man is finally getting some fucking therapy. Javert is both pleased yet also somewhat anxious. Pleased, because then Valjean will actually start living his life for the first time in forty years. Anxious, because it means he’ll come to his senses and tell Javert to fuck off. As he should, Javert reminds himself. The thing he’s hesitantly calling affection has rooted itself deeper than he intended and all his half-assed attempts to kill it have only made it stronger. He doesn’t know what to do with himself. Valjean wouldn’t want to date someone like him. Javert has almost no dating experience, only a little bit of friendship experience, but a general dislike towards humanity as a whole. He’s bitter and cynical and ugly and, by all means, Valjean shouldn’t like him.

Javert supposes he’ll just have to enjoy Valjean’s company while it lasts. Which is weird in itself, Javert liking someone else’s company.

Valjean won’t tell him how his first therapy session went, although he looks pained when Javert asks about it.

“Cosette was there,” is all Valjean says about it.

Javert shrugs and hopes it went well, although it likely didn’t from Valjean’s perspective.

“It’ll get better,” Javert says. “Seriously, you need this. You’ll feel better about yourself.”

Valjean shrugs and looks down at his drink. Tea today. Javert has been keeping track, even if Valjean still buys all his drinks. Javert has protested, but Valjean is stubborn. Sometimes Valjean will get a latte, rarely a proper coffee to which he adds an exorbitant amount of cream with very little sugar, but usually he sticks to tea. Sometimes green, sometimes black; he doesn’t seem to know until he gets to the register. Javert has, so far, failed to find a pattern.

Javert huffs. “Fine, whatever. I’m trying to be optimistic here.”

“That’s… kind of you,” Valjean says quietly. “Thank you for believing in me.”

Javert shifts uncomfortably and looks out the window to keep Valjean from seeing his expression. “I want you to live your life, Jean, not stay imprisoned by your own mind. I got you that pardon- fucking use it.”

He sips his coffee. This place makes alright coffee. Better than the prefecture for sure, but that’s not exactly a high bar. Overpriced, but since Valjean keeps buying it for him he’s not that concerned.

“I’ve thought about your offer,” Valjean says after some time spent in silence. “Maybe… maybe in a week?”

“What offer?”

“To go shopping.”

Javert looks at him. Valjean is still looking down at his tea, but he’s picking at his nails again.

“Stop that,” Javert says, laying a hand on Valjean’s. They’re warm and comforting, as they always seem to be. He still can’t believe he wants to fucking hold hands with Jean Valjean after hating him for so many years.

Valjean stops moving. Javert carefully curls his hand around Valjean’s fingers.

“It’s not good for your nailbeds,” Javert says. “And you end up making yourself bleed.”

“Nervous habit,” Valjean mumbles.

“Habits can be broken.”

Valjean glances up, looking at him with a strange expression. It’s almost like… grief. Or longing. Or something in between. It doesn’t make any sense.

“Jean?” Javert asks.

Valjean takes his hands away, leaving Javert’s on the table. Well, lesson learned; don’t touch what he can’t have, because Valjean doesn’t seem to like it.

“Sorry,” Valjean apologizes.

“I don’t even want to know what you’re apologizing for this time,” Javert says.

“I…” Valjean shakes his head. “N-never mind.”

Javert scowls. He takes his hand off the table because he looks like an idiot.

“So,” Javert says instead of dwelling on it. “When are you free to replace your clothes?”

“Ah…” Valjean mutters something into his beard.

“What was that?”

“M-maybe your next day off?”

Javert thinks. His next day off is Friday. He doesn’t want to go shopping on Friday. It’ll be busy with all kinds of people to piss him off and make Valjean anxious.

“Or… or not…” Valjean says when Javert’s been quiet for too long. “You don’t have to.”

“I’m thinking, Jean,” Javert replies impatiently. “Can’t do it this week. My day off next week is Wednesday. That okay with you?”

Valjean nods. Javert sighs. He never knows how to get Valjean out of these anxious moods besides wait for it to be over.

“We’ll go in the morning,” Javert says. “Less crowds in the morning. I don’t want to fight people for clothes.”

“Does that… actually happen?”

“Not often,” Javert answers. “Usually happens around the holidays, when more people are out and stores can’t keep up with the demand. But sometimes.”

Valjean falls quiet again.

“How long do you expect it will take?” Valjean asks eventually.

Javert shrugs. “Half an hour to an hour? I’m familiar with the place I’m thinking of going, so it shouldn’t be too long.

Valjean nods.

Javert tries not to be annoyed by Valjean’s lack of response and drinks his coffee.

Valjean’s therapist says he should be doing things just a little out of his comfort zone. Shopping is out of his comfort zone, but he’ll be with Javert who likely won’t spend hours trying to pick something for him. So it probably qualifies. It’s almost like a date, but Valjean is trying his best not to think of it like that. Javert doesn’t want to date him. Javert doesn’t want to date period.

He thinks about the last time they had lunch, where Javert took his hand. That was nice. He doesn’t feel like he deserves nice. His therapist and Cosette say otherwise, so he’s trying to be optimistic. It’s harder than he thought it would be. His therapist has prescribed some antianxiety medication, but he hasn’t worked up the nerve to take it yet. The orange bottle sits innocently next to his bathroom sink, staring at him every morning and judging him when he doesn’t pick it up.

Valjean’s therapist thinks it’s great that he’s getting out.

“You should be proud of yourself,” she tells him.

Valjean doesn’t think so, but he’s trying.

Cosette, of course, is thrilled that her father is going shopping of his own volition. Valjean can tell she’s desperately trying to give him his own space by not coming with them, which Valjean is grateful for.

“Maybe next time,” he tells her, trying to smile. It comes out somewhat pained.

She hugs him. “I’ll leave you in Javert’s capable hands,” she says. “He definitely knows what he’s doing.”

It startles a laugh out of Valjean, and Cosette laughs with him.

Valjean meets Javert on Wednesday at a store a few streets away from the main shopping district. Javert is in his long grey coat, smoking a cigarette.

“Hey,” Javert greets.

“Hi,” Valjean says.

Javert takes one last drag and snuffs out his cigarette butt on the pavement with his shoe. Then, seeing Valjean’s look, rolls his eyes, picks it up, and throws it away in a nearby trash can.

“Ready for this?” Javert asks, raising an eyebrow.

Valjean doesn’t really know how to answer that. “I… Maybe?”

Javert almost smiles. “Close enough. Come on, I checked it out before you got here. It’s almost empty.”

Valjean follows him inside. It’s a menswear store, which immediately puts Valjean more at ease. Cosette always does her own shopping along with her father’s when she drags him along. Most of the clothes here are in darker colors, but there’s some lighter jackets and shirts spread throughout.

“I like this place,” Javert says. “Little expensive, but it’s Paris. I bought this coat here.”

Valjean looks at Javert’s coat more closely. It’s a nice charcoal grey, but it’s not just one solid color. It’s a mix of darker and lighter grey threads that, from afar, give it a uniform look. It’s just complex enough to be interesting yet still rather plain. Valjean likes it. More importantly, he likes Javert in the coat. It makes him look even taller and more intimidating. And rather striking. Valjean doesn’t dare tell Javert this.

“I like it,” Valjean says.

Javert looks at him. “Me too.” He looks away. “What colors do you like to wear? I’ve seen you in green a couple of times.”

“I like green,” Valjean says. “Blues too.”

“You’re not a blue guy,” Javert responds. “How about brown?”

“Sure,’ Valjean says, not sure what he should be saying.

Javert looks him over again. “Hm. Let’s do a shirt first. You look alright in white, but it’s a little too sharp. How about tan? Or something darker?”

“Whatever you say,” Valjean says, having no idea what Javert means by any of that.

Javert leads him to a section of shirts. They’re very much like the kind Javert wears, mostly button-ups in various shades. There are even ones in more surprising colors that Valjean didn’t expect to see in a store like this, like pale pink and lavender. He can’t imagine Javert wearing those.

“Stay there,” Javert says. He goes to the rack and pulls out shirts at what seem to be random. There’s a grey-brown one, one closer to white, and one that’s a darker purple. None of them have any bold patterns on them, to which Valjean is grateful.

Javert holds them up to Valjean with an appraising eye. “These are decent. Pick one or two of them. It’s always good to have more than one shirt for an outfit. Makes it not repetitive.” He pauses. “And seriously, all your shirts are fucking ancient. They’re falling apart. You need new shirts.”

Valjean colors but doesn’t argue. Javert is the expert here.

“Um…” He looks at each of them.

“You’re going to be trying these on,” Javert says. To Valjean, it’s almost a threat. “I think the color is good, but the fit might not be. These should be the same, but there are other sizes and cuts that might work better for you.”

Valjean sighs. He touches each of the shirts. They’re all softer than he expected, almost silky. Comparing these shirts to the one he’s wearing, his feels much rougher. He supposes it’s the price range.

“I- I like the purple?” Valjean says. “It’s colorful.”

Javert huffs. “That’s why I picked these. No black for you, since you’re not going to be wearing it if you did buy it for some reason.”

Valjean didn’t expect Javert to remember that he doesn’t like wearing black. It makes his chest warm.

“Pick shit you’re actually going to wear,” Javert continues. “Otherwise, it just ends up in your closet gathering dust. Then what’s the point of buying it in the first place?”

That makes sense. Valjean looks at his choices again. The purple one for sure, then the one that’s almost white. It’s kind of a very light brown. He doesn’t know what color to call it.

“That one too,” he says, pointing.

Javert puts away the grey-brown one. “Try one on and show me.”

Valjean takes the purple shirt and sighs. This is his least favorite part.

He steps into the changing room and changes quickly, not looking at the mirror. He’s sure he looks foolish out of his normal clothes. When he steps out, Javert is pacing, holding the other shirt. Valjean clears his throat.

Javert looks up. For a moment, he looks taken aback and Valjean wonders if he made a horrible choice. The next moment, the expression is gone.

“Looks great,” Javert says. “Contrasts with your eyes so they look more green. And your hair, too.”

“R-really?”

Javert huffs. “When do I lie?” He tilts his head. “Have you looked at yourself yet?”

Valjean shakes his head.

“Hmm,” Javert hums. “Maybe it’s for the best.”

He doesn’t explain what he means by that and Valjean can only assume it’s because he looks terrible.

“Let me look at you,” Javert says.

Valjean is forced to stay still while Javert prowls around him like a tiger stalking his prey.

“Hm,” Javert says when he’s done. “This one is too tight in the shoulders. Forgot how fucking broad you are.”

Valjean winces. Javert sighs.

“It’s a compliment,” Javert says tiredly. “I’ll be back with a different size.”

He disappears in between the racks of clothes and Valjean stands there awkwardly in the purple shirt. Maybe choosing purple was a bad idea? But Javert said he looked good, and Javert doesn’t often lie. Valjean remembers him being pretty bad at lying, now that he thinks back.

Javert said he looks good. It’s almost enough for Valjean to brave the mirror.

“Here,” Javert says, holding out a new shirt in a similar shade of purple before Valjean can gather the courage to face the mirror. “Try this. It should be the right size.”

Valjean does, still studiously not looking at the mirror. He doesn’t like looking at his tattoos. They were a good idea at the time, but he wasn’t in a good headspace and the tattoos aren’t very good to begin with. Cosette has seen some of the ones on his arms, but never the ones on his chest or back. There’s more than he should have gotten, especially considering how easily they got infected in prison.

He shakes himself out of it and dresses in the new purple shirt. It’s more comfortable in the shoulders, now that he thinks about it. The other one was just tight enough to be uncomfortable, but it wasn’t exactly restrictive so he had shrugged it off.

Javert approves the new shirt and has Valjean change back into his normal clothes so they can go find trousers.

FUCK I POSTED IT EARLY D: oh well. Consider this your chapter for tomorrow because there's no undoing it now.

Valjean is too damn handsome for this, Javert thinks. Fuck. He’s so annoyingly handsome. Better in that purple shirt, probably even more so in the tan one. They’re onto trousers now and Javert is barely restraining himself from checking Valjean out so obviously that he notices. Although he might not, considering his anxiety around buying clothes.

“You already have a lot of jeans, so you should get some slacks,” Javert says. “It’s a nice break. Different texture. I’d recommend the brown for you.”

Valjean gives him a wary look, but picks through the display looking for his size. Javert waits impatiently, trying not to rush him. Javert knows his own size, what he likes, what he looks good in, and rarely tries things on anymore. His body hasn’t changed much in twenty years, save for more grey in his hair and more wrinkles on his face. He’s still awkwardly tall and too damn skinny from how he keeps skipping meals in favor or work or coffee.

“These, I think?” Valjean asks, holding a pair of chocolate brown trousers.

“You can try them on later,” Javert says. “Let’s get you a vest.”

“I don’t need a vest…”

“Maybe not, but you’ll look good in it. It doesn’t have to be fancy.”

Valjean wilts but follows obediently.

“I don’t usually wear vests, I wear jackets,” Javert says. “You would look good in a vest, though. Especially in long sleeves like these with this kind of fabric. Elevates you to the next level, where you stop looking a little like a homeless man.”

Valjean cringes, but Javert only rolls his eyes.

“Here,” Javert says. “I think you’d be good in one of these knit ones. Not too fancy. As for color… with the shirts and the trousers, I’d say a burnt umber. Like this one.”

He picks one off the rack. It’s soft, just like Valjean’s hair. It’s not too vibrant, somewhere on the border between dark orange and brown. Nothing like Valjean’s yellow coat from years ago. God. Anything but that.

“Ah… I like it?” Valjean says.

“Are you asking me or telling me?” Javert asks impatiently. “If you don’t like the umber, we can do a tan. It’s less colorful though.”

“Oh, I… I didn’t think you would remember that.”

Javert huffs. “I’ve got a good memory. Makes up for some of the other shit I can’t do.”

Valjean looks like he’s about to argue, then shakes his head. “I like this one.”

Javert picks through them and pulls one out that’s Valjean’s size. “Go try everything on now. Have to make sure it fits and that the colors go good together on you, but I think they will.”

“I’m sure they will,” Valjean says. “You… seem to know a lot about this. Even if… you don’t seem to wear these kinds of colors.”

“I wear blues and greys,” Javert says. “I look like shit in warm tones. You’re the opposite. Go, change. Then we can go to the register and leave.”

Valjean seems surprised by that, but Javert only scowls irritably at him. Obligingly, he goes. Javert paces outside the dressing rooms, scowling at himself. What if he picked something bad? Or worse, what if he picked something good? Making Valjean more handsome than he already is?

He grimaces, realizing that’s basically the point of this outing. Shooting himself in the foot, then. He already has problems with finding himself staring at Valjean. Now it’s going to be worse.

The dressing room unlocks and Valjean steps out. His shoulders are raised around his ears, hands smoothing the knit vest over his chest self-consciously.

“Do I look alright?”

The purple shirt makes his eyes bright, his hair even whiter than it usually is by contrast with all the dark he’s wearing. The umber vest matches the shirt, both being autumn colors, and the knit look makes him seem approachable and kind. Which he is. The trousers fit his legs well even if they’re a little long. His beaten grey sneakers look like they’ll last maybe another week before falling apart, so that’s something to bother him about. They don’t match the rest, but Javert doesn’t really care. He’s handsome. It's what he wanted.

“Javert?”

Javert clears his throat, trying to move his eyes from Valjean’s wide chest. Christ. That vest looks good on him. Somehow emphasizing the width of his shoulders but keeping him approachable. Damn. Javert wants to touch him in that vest.

“You look good,” Javert says, somehow not sounding strangled. He forces his face into its regular frown. “Tuck in your shirt. Looks neater that way.”

Valjean obeys, face flushed with what must be embarrassment. He’s too handsome for his own good.

“These colors work good on you,” Javert says. “You’ll be replacing those shoes before they fall apart, right?”

Valjean colors, looking down. “Ah… I… haven’t thought about it…”

Javert sighs. “Order whatever you want online... or whatever. Said I wouldn’t do shoes today. I’d recommend brown, any kind of brown. Like I said, you don’t look good in cool greys like I do, nor harsh whites.” He sighs. “Not like you’d keep them white with all your gardening,” he mutters to himself.

He still hasn’t seen Valjean’s garden. He’s upset to learn that he wants Valjean to show him around and talk about his plants even if Javert doesn’t know shit about plants.

Valjean runs his hands down the vest again. “Er… Are you sure I look okay?”

“Have you not looked?”

Valjean shakes his head, looking anxious.

Javert looks him over again, green eyes to wide shoulders to thick thighs that are all on display in the clothes Javert picked out.

“Get over here,” Javert says, motioning him over to the big mirror out where he’s standing. “Look.”

Valjean comes over reluctantly, standing in front of the mirror. He doesn’t look up. Javert wants to strangle him. No matter how handsome he is, Valjean is utterly infuriating.

“Look at yourself,” Javert says. Orders, more like, but his patience is running out and they’re almost done here anyway.

Valjean looks up slowly, then blinks as he takes himself in. He says nothing for long moments.

“You can wear that red scarf you like with this,” Javert says. “Might be too many colors at once, but you’re just going to do it anyway so why should I bother attempting to stop you.”

Still Valjean says nothing. Javert waits a little longer, arms crossed over his chest.

“Did I fuck it up?” Javert asks, his anxiety manifesting itself as annoyance. “I can try again.”

“No,” Valjean says softly. He meets Javert’s eyes in the mirror. “No, I… I’ve never…” He looks away, cheeks pink. “I’ve never looked handsome before…”

“Yes, you have,” Javert says. “You looked handsome in Montreuil-sur-Mer, even if your clothes weren’t quite your style.” He pauses. “That first date at the restaurant. You looked good then.”

“Really?”

“Yeah.”

Valjean holds his eyes and smiles at him. “Thank you.”

Javert abruptly looks away. Valjean’s smiles always fluster him. “You’ve always been handsome. You just can’t fucking dress yourself to show it off.”

Valjean colors, hands fiddling with the bottom of the knit vest.

“Stop that,” Javert growls. “You haven’t bought it yet. Can’t ruin it with your fiddling before you buy it.”

“Oh,” Valjean says, forcing his hands away. “Th-thank you for the compliment.”

Javert can feel unwanted heat in his cheeks. He’s not used to being thanked. “No problem.”

Valjean smiles again. Now, in good fitting clothes that actually complement him, it’s almost too much for Javert. He looks away, covering the lower half of his face with a hand.

“Change back so you can buy them,” Javert says from behind his hand. “Can’t wear them out.”

“I’ll wear them next time we have lunch.”

Javert doesn’t know if he’ll be able to survive that. However, he’s not opposed for Valjean to be his cause of death, not if he looks like this.

Valjean can admit that shopping with Javert wasn’t so bad. It only took a little less than an hour and, while Valjean is still warming up to the idea of new clothes that are finer than what he usually buys, Javert did make him look very nice. Cosette winked at him when he admitted to enjoying it more than usual, which isn’t saying much, and it left him confused. What did she mean by winking at him? He tries not to dwell on it.

He leaves the new clothes hanging up on his desk chair in his room so he can look at them every day. They’re nice. Colorful, as he likes, but somehow cohesive. He doubts he’d be able to pick something similar out himself. Javert really does have an eye for this kind of thing. 

When he next has lunch with Javert, he spends fifteen minutes fretting over himself in the mirror. The purple shirt is soft against his skin and the knit vest is nice and just warm enough to where he only needs a scarf. His red scarf does, in fact, look good with the outfit. He doesn’t see what Javert meant by the shirt bringing out the green in his eyes, but that’s fine. His therapist says that it’s okay if he doesn’t know exactly what people mean all the time since it’s almost never malicious. After all, he doesn’t have those kinds of thoughts about other people. He’s trying to listen to her more.

Cosette scolded him when she found out that he hadn’t been taking his anxiety medication, so he’s on day three of taking it. So far, it’s making him nauseous and not much else. His therapist said it would take about a week for the initial side effects to go away and then maybe a month to really kick in. A month seems like a long time, but, as Cosette said, it’s better than doing nothing. 

“Hey,” Javert says when Valjean meets him for lunch at their usual café. His gaze looks Valjean up and down. “Looking good.”

Valjean flushes. “Th-thank you? It’s all thanks to you…”

Javert scoffs. “You still had to put them on. You could have chosen not to wear them after all if you decided you hated them.”

“No, I like them,” Valjean says. “Do you want a coffee?”

“Jean, I always want coffee.”

Valjean orders Javert’s coffee and his tea. White ginger today. He’s not feeling up to much else with his nausea from his medication.

He notices that Javert is still looking at him. Discretely, yes, but Javert’s eyes are sharp like a falcon. It’s hard not to notice when Javert is looking at him. 

“Did I put it on wrong?” Valjean asks anxiously.

“Hm?”

“My clothes…”

Javert blinks. “No. You look good.”

That’s the second time he’s said that. Javert doesn’t like repeating himself. It’s weird. 

“Okay…?”

Javert huffs. “Stop worrying about it.”

Valjean’s name is called, his therapist also said that he should start using his actual name at coffee shops instead of his alias so now he is even if it feels weird, and he quickly goes to pick up their drinks. His finger brushes Javert’s when he hands over Javert’s coffee. 

“Thanks,” Javert says. 

Valjean smiles at him. 

“You’ve never ordered that kind of tea before,” Javert says. 

Valjean looks down at his cup. He didn’t realize Javert was paying such close attention to his drinks. “It’s ginger. Helps with nausea.”

“You’re nauseous?”

“It… it’s my new medication.”

Javert makes a sound of acknowledgement. “What for?”

“Anxiety.”

“Hm. I hope they work for you.”

“You do?”

Javert eyes him again in a way that Valjean would once have thought to be irritation. Now he knows it’s hidden curiosity. Maybe there is still a little irritation in there though.

“Why wouldn’t I want it to work for you?” Javert asks. “We’re supposed to be friends.”

“We are friends,” Valjean assures him. Javert is always asking if they’re friends. He looks away. “I don’t know… I admit I can still be… surprised when you’re nice to me.”

Javert scoffs. “I’m not nice.”

“Yes you are.”

Javert looks at him for a long moment. “You’re probably the only one who thinks that.”

“You’re nice to me.”

“Hm.” Javert takes a sip of his coffee, seemingly unbothered by the scalding temperature it must be. “If you say so.”

They sit. Javert idly looks out over the café and taps his fingers in some sort of pattern on the table. Valjean watches him. 

Javert still isn’t handsome, will never be considered such, but now that Valjean is used to his face he can find things to admire about it. Javert’s bushy sideburns are his most notable feature, but second up are his eyes. They’re such a dark brown they look black, always searching for something. They hide under his thick eyebrows which only make them look even more piercing. Then there’s his chin, square and bulldog-ish as it is. His nose is too large for his face, his nostrils wide, but Valjean thinks it rather distinguished now that he’s taken the time to appreciate it. Javert’s hair is always neatly tied back in a queue or a braid, rarely a hair out of place. He’s turning grey at the temples; not white like Valjean. More of an iron color. It suits him. 

“What?” 

Valjean blinks to refocus. Javert is looking at him irritably. 

“What, what?” Valjean asks. 

“What are you looking at?”

Valjean looks away and his cheeks heat, embarrassed to be caught staring. “Ah, just… admiring you.”

Javert scoffs. “There’s nothing about my face to admire.”

“Yes there is,” Valjean says. “I was thinking your eyes are very striking.”

Javert looks at him, those same eyes looking into his soul. “What.”

“Ah, erm…” Valjean’s face is hot. “N-never mind.”

“Did you just say I was striking?”

Valjean looks out the window, hoping very much that Javert will forget about this conversation. “M-maybe?”

He can feel Javert’s stare. Eventually, Valjean gathers the courage to look back. There’s color in Javert’s cheeks, staining them darker. Not very much, but enough for Valjean to notice. He decides he likes it, and dares give him another complement.

“T-the grey in your hair makes you look… ah… distinguished?” Valjean says hesitantly. “It’s… handsome.”

Javert’s cheeks grow darker. “Handsome,” he repeats. 

“Yes.”

Javert looks away and covers the lower part of his face with a hand. “Handsome,” he says again. 

“Is… is that so bad?” Valjean asks. 

Javert doesn’t answer, still hiding his cheeks with one hand. It’s… endearing to see him so flustered. 

“Javert?”

“Fine,” Javert says, not very convincingly. “I’m fine.” He takes a large gulp of coffee. 

Valjean can’t help but smile at him. What he would do to actually date him… But Javert doesn’t date and he certainly won’t date Valjean. He never thought he would call Javert a friend, but here he is. It is blessing enough. He will satisfy himself with this. 

Javert catches his eye and looks away abruptly, face flushing even more such that his ears are red as well. 

“Stop that,” Javert growls. 

“Stop what?” Valjean asks innocently. 

“Complementing me,” Javert grits out. “I’m not striking or handsome.”

“I think you are.”

“I’m ugly and I know it,” Javert says. “Don’t lie to me.”

“I’m not lying,” Valjean says, frowning. “I really do think those things.”

Javert shakes his head. “Ridiculous.” His face is still flushed. 

Valjean wants to compliment him more just to see him blush but holds himself back. Javert seems to both like and dislike being complimented this way in equal measure. Valjean dares not push too far. He doesn’t want Javert to be angry with him or think he’s lying. He smiles and drinks his tea instead.

Striking! Handsome! Distinguished! Javert can’t get the stupid compliments out of his mind. He knows he’s ugly. He sees his face every morning and not a bit of it is worthy of being called striking or handsome or distinguished. Valjean must be insane. Or something is wrong with his eyes, despite apparently having nearly perfect vision at his age.

Valjean had just smiled irritatingly at him while Javert struggled to get himself under control. It hadn’t helped because Valjean’s smile makes him feel things and dressed in those clothes that Javert picked out that actually look good on him… Yeah, it took him far too long to for his face to return to normal temperatures. Valjean had only finished his tea and didn’t say anything else.

This morning, Javert looks at himself in the mirror as he shaves. He tries to smile. It shows all his teeth and gums and he scowls instead. That looks much better. He doesn’t understand how Valjean can look at his face and call him handsome. His eyes are brown and boring and certainly not striking, and his greying hair might be the only bit of his appearance he’s proud of but it’s certainly not good enough to be called distinguished. He runs a brush through his hair before tying it up in its usual ponytail.

He has a few minutes before he has to leave. A lot of thoughts are running through his head so he sits at his kitchen counter buffing his nails until they shine. It’s something to do with his hands while his mind struggles accepting that Valjean of all people complimented him earnestly. It’s almost enough to make Javert suspicious of him, but Valjean is far too honest for underhanded tactics. He wasn’t always, but he certainly is now. He’s changed.

Javert has been trying to change too, attempting to think of a suitable job for himself now that he’s become disillusioned with police justice. He still believes in justice, but he knows the laws are flawed. Now he’s seeking a different kind of justice. A social kind.

He hates that he’s thinking of becoming a social justice advocate. He used to sneer at them in the streets whenever they protested some law or another. And now he’s thinking that it may be the only path left available to him.

He has no idea where to even begin with it. He’s been too hesitant to Google what he needs to do. Does he need a degree? What’s the salary like? Can he still pay his rent or will he have to move to a cheaper place?

He scowls, putting down his nail buffing block. He doesn’t want to think about it. He doesn’t like change, but that’s kind of what got him into this situation in the first place.

Maybe he should talk to Valjean about it. He probably should. He’s still not set on becoming an advocate, but it certainly seems better than enforcing a system of cruelty. The system needs to be changed and being an advocate can help with that. It’s basically perfect, as much as he recoils from the idea.

He looks at his watch and scowls. Now he’s late.

“How’s your boyfriend?” Gisquet asks when Javert gets to work.

“I don’t have a boyfriend,” Javert growls.

“Of course,” Gisquet replies, smiling in a way that means he doesn’t believe Javert one bit. Javert wants to strangle him.

“I really don’t,” Javert says with a scowl. “I’m too ugly to be datable.”

He thinks about Valjean calling him handsome and striking and distinguished and fights the heat in his cheeks.

Gisquet sighs. “I’m sure your boyfriend doesn’t think you’re ugly. Be kinder to yourself.”

Javert remembers that Valjean said he doesn’t think Javert is ugly. It makes his thoughts even more jumbled.

“I’m not kind,” Javert growls. “I’m not nice. And I don’t have a boyfriend!”

“Mhm,” says Gisquet, smiling.

Javert wants to scream.

So sorry! Internet at my house went out (and then I got sucked into reading a trope so I've consumed maybe 2mil words in the last four days) so I've been distracted and unable to post. Gonna get back on that writing bike though!

Javert has something on his mind that annoys him. Valjean can tell because he’s answering questions in monosyllabic words and scowling out the window. Valjean hopes it’s not him, but his medication has started to kick in and he’s noticed a fairly significant decrease in his anxiety. Just because Javert is annoyed with something doesn’t mean that Valjean is immediately at fault. He’s still a little worried, but not abruptly terrified as he’s used to feeling. It’s nice.

“Javert?” Valjean asks.

“Hm,” Javert answers. He is still scowling out the window.

“Are you alright?”

Javert frowns, which is somehow different from his scowl, and looks at Valjean. “What?”

“I asked if you were alright.”

“I heard you,” Javert says irritably. “Why do you ask?”

Valjean frowns. “Because you seem agitated?”

“I’m not agitated” Javert says dismissively. 

“Then why are you scowling about?”

“I’m always scowling,” Javert says, scowling. “This is just what my face looks like.”

“It only looks like that when you’re scowling,” Valjean says pointedly. “Which you’re doing now. And have been doing for the last ten minutes.”

Javert huffs. “I’m not handsome.”

“Alright?” Valjean asks, anxiety creeping up on him despite his medication. “Is… is it what I said last time? I didn’t mean to embarrass you…”

“I’m not embarrassed,” Javert growls. “I just… don’t know what to think about it.”

Valjean waits for more, but Javert just sips his coffee and goes back to scowling out the window. He thought about bringing a book but didn’t want to imply that Javert wasn’t worth his time by reading it in front of him. Now he wishes he had brought the book. 

“Should I… apologize?” Valjean asks hesitantly. “I do stand by what I said, and you said I shouldn’t apologize for a compliment…”

“Don’t apologize,” Javert mutters. “It’s… fine.”

He says it as if it’s not fine and Valjean frowns. 

“I’m just… not used to it,” Javert grits out after a moment. “I’m ugly and I know it. I don’t need compliments.”

“But compliments are nice, usually,” Valjean says. “If I offended you, please let me apologize.”

“Don’t apologize,” Javert growls. “It’s fine.”

“I… don’t think it is?” Valjean asks. “What can I do to make you feel better?”

Javert growls wordlessly. “I don’t fucking know. Don’t apologize.”

“Okay. I won’t.”

They sit in silence until Javert gives a frustrated sigh.

“Do you know anything about being a social justice advocate?” Javert asks, still scowling.

“Not in particular, no,” Valjean answers, a little thrown by the change in subject. “I know what they do, but that’s it.”

“Hmm.”

Valjean looks down and picks at his nails. “Is… Is that what you want to do?”

“I don’t know.” Javert’s scowl deepens. “I don’t like change.”

“I’ve gathered that.”

Javert glares at him, but not with any serious anger. 

“…Sorry,” Valjean says. 

Javert huffs. “I don’t know if I need a degree or if I can skate by with what I have. I’m already aware of all the laws and shit and I feel like half of what I would need to learn are all the laws. So, that’s something.” He taps his index finger on his disposable coffee cup in thought. “I don’t like being a cop anymore. It’s grating. I’m not allowed to do the right thing whenever I see the laws are wrong and instead have to go on doing the wrong thing. I don’t want to do the wrong things anymore. I want to be good.”

“You’ve already made amazing progress,” Valjean says. “You are good.”

Javert’s lips twitch upward in a snarl. “I still do bad things. Had to arrest a tenant who couldn’t pay the bills the other day on the landlord’s order. It’s not right.”

“But you’re trying,” Valjean tells him. He hesitates, then reaches over and rests a hand on Javert’s wrist. 

Javert’s finger abruptly stops tapping his cup. Valjean looks up. Javert is looking down at Valjean’s hand. Valjean worries he doesn’t like it, but then reasons that Javert would have said so or pulled away if he hated it. Javert’s very easy to read that way. He must at least tolerate it.

“Is… this okay?” Valjean asks hesitantly, ready to pull back.

“Yeah,” Javert says, voice sounding odd. “It’s fine.”

Valjean is still worried it isn’t, but squeezes his wrist comfortingly before pulling away. Javert’s shirt is the same quality as Valjean’s new ones. He must go to that store often. 

“What can I do to help?”

Javert frowns. Valjean notices it’s not quite a scowl as it was before. 

“I don’t know,” Javert says. “I should be doing this myself. Got myself in this mess, I should get myself out.”

“You don’t have to,” Valjean says. “I can help. I want to see you doing what you want to do, not trapped in a job you no longer like.”

Javert sighs and starts tapping his finger on his coffee cup again. 

“I… want to help,” Valjean restates. “You said… back then… that I made you see. Please let me help.”

“Hm,” Javert hums. “If you’re insisting on it…”

Valjean smiles. “Friends help each other, and we are friends.”

“Hm,” Javert hums again, looking at Valjean with his falcon-like eyes. “I suppose we are.”

Valjean’s smile turns brilliant. Javert just admitted they were friends of his own accord— that counts as progress as far as Valjean is concerned. 

Javert looks at him for a moment with an unrecognizable look, then turns to gaze out the window again. He almost smiles. 

Valjean’s heart skips in his chest.

Javert, with Valjean’s help, learns that he does, actually, need a degree. Most of what he needs to know is covered by his police training, but he presumes that there are other things being taught that he doesn’t know. Like philosophy, apparently. He can do it online and signs up after spending almost an entire night staring at the “Enroll now!” page.

It's not as bad as he presumed it would be. Watch some lectures, read some sections from a textbook, which he pirated because he’s decided that copyright laws deserve to be broken when it comes to the obscene price of textbooks, answer some questions on quizzes and tests, and that’s about it. The courses he’s taking say it should take two years to finish, but he’s not taking a full load with his full-time job and his twice-weekly lunches with Valjean. It’s still easier than he thought it would be. He knows most of the answers, which is nice. He’s always hated studying. He’ll do it if he has to, but it’s never come naturally to him.

Valjean helps. He found the online college that Javert is enrolled in and set up a class schedule that works with his workload. Javert talks through his frustrations with the stupid online test system that’s so goddamn picky it makes him almost want to quit his job and take the classes in person. But then he probably would have to dig into his savings if he did that. He doesn’t have a huge amount in his bank account to begin with.

Javert thinks about the time when Valjean touched his wrist at the café. He’s started doing that more, the touching. Usually to his arm or hand, sometimes his shoulder. Javert never knows how to react to them. He likes them. He wants to touch Valjean in turn but can’t ever find a reason to. He wants a reason. He’d like to take Valjean’s hand again. Preferably in private, but he’d settle for public at their usual café.

Valjean has clearly been doing better with his anxiety. Javert’s not sure about his depression, but he always seems happy to see Javert. Valjean’s much harder to startle and he rarely stutters anymore, even when speaking to the various baristas manning the till. He still orders lattes and coffees and teas at random, but Javert is noticing a trend towards black tea with lots of cream. He likes his tea like he likes his coffee. Javert finds this fact fascinating for reasons he doesn’t understand.

Then Valjean asks if Javert wants to visit him.

“What?” Javert asks.

“Er, if it’s too much…”

“No,” Javert says to stop him. “I didn’t think you would want me in your space.”

Valjean smiles at him and Javert tries not to let it affect him. “I could make us lunch or dinner there.”

Javert blinks. He doesn’t understand why Valjean wants him to come over. Shouldn’t he be coming to his senses by now?

“Sure,” Javert says. “My next day off is Thursday.”

“Then I’ll make us something.” Valjean smiles again. “Nothing with shellfish, though.”

Javert barks an unexpected laugh. “Hell no. Learned our lesson with that already.”

Valjean chuckles, his laugh soft and somehow different from any other laugh Javert has ever heard. It’s special. Javert wants to hear it more often.

“No fucking shellfish,” Javert continues to make himself stop staring at Valjean’s smiling mouth. “That was a fucking awful experience and I certainly hope I’ll never eat shellfish again, even if those damn clams were pretty good.”

“You liked them?”

“Unfortunately, yes,” Javert answers. “They were nicer than I though they would be.” He shrugs. “It’s fine. I’ve lived perfectly fine without eating clams for most of my life.”

Valjean looks down to fiddle with his scarf, hiding a smile. “I’m glad.”

“What will you be making, if not shellfish?”

Valjean shrugs. “I don’t know. What do you want to eat?”

“I don’t care. I like most things. Your sandwiches at the park were really good.”

“Yeah?”

Javert rolls his eyes. “I don’t say shit I don’t mean, Jean.”

Valjean kicks him gently under the table. “I’ll think of something.”

“Just make whatever you want to eat. I’m sure I’ll like it.”

Valjean smiles at him again. Javert basks in it, carefully looking over Valjean’s shoulder as not to stare so obviously. Valjean has been smiling more. Javert considers this very good progress.

“How have you been feeling?” Javert asks. “Mentally, that is. Are your therapy sessions going well?”

Valjean looks down at the table. “It’s… getting easier. You were right. It is kind of like ripping off a band aid. But it’s also like I’m being forced to open locked doors without the key and pulling whatever is in there out into the light. It’s… not all good things.”

He falls silent. Javert considers him. Valjean has always been the strongest man he knows. In every way imaginable.

“Working through things is the point,” Javert says. “You’ve been through a lot of shit. I’m not expecting you to feel better overnight.”

Valjean gives him a slight smile. “You’re right. I just… wish it could go faster so I’d be over it by now.”

Javert snorts. “Rushing this is a bad idea. You know that.”

Valjean sighs. “I suppose I do.”

Valjean decides to cook Javert one of his favorite meals, beef bourguignon. It’s something that he and his sister learned from their mother, and that Valjean would make for Jeanne and her kids. He goes to the butcher in the market that he’s fond of for the beef and bacon, gets himself a nice dry red wine for cooking everything in and a Pinot Noir to drink, some herbs that he doesn’t have in his garden, and a half a pound of little mushrooms. From his garden and pantry, he harvests onion, carrots, garlic, and thyme. It always makes him feel better to use things he’s grown himself.

He starts cooking early in the day to let it cook slowly over the afternoon, listening to the classical music station on the radio. His therapist suggested listening to music more but he’s not sure what genres interest him. Classical is always, well, a classic. He’s enjoying the Romantics so far and doesn’t care for the Baroque pieces as much. He didn’t have much time to listen to music before his arrest and everything he listened to in prison brings back memories he’d rather not revisit.

It feels like his life is starting over again with Javert and his therapy and his new medications. It had felt like this when he was first released on parole, then when Cosette first came into his life, and now…

Valjean pauses in his cooking preparation, knife poised over the mushrooms. He’s happy, or at least getting there. Cosette has always been his joy, but now he finds he can let her live her life instead of vicariously living through her. He has a friend in Javert, as odd as that may be, and although Javert will never date him Valjean is perfectly happy living with his affection unrequited. Is this what Javert thought of when he got Valjean his pardon?

He doesn’t think he was happy before. Yes, he has his cat Toussaint, whom he adores, his garden, and Cosette, but now he is also not as afraid to step outside into the city. He’s still hesitant to talk to strangers, but he’s not as terrified as he was by it. The therapy, as Javert said it would, is helping. Slowly, but it’s helping.

He shakes his head, returning to his cutting board. How strange, to find happiness at his age.

Soon enough, his house smells like roasting meat and vegetables as the pot cooks slowly in the oven. He hasn’t cooked this particular dish in a long time and the aroma strikes a pang of regret and longing in him. For the first time in years, he misses his sister. He wonders what Jeanne would think of Javert, if she would approve of him. Likely not, considering the past between him and the fierce Inspector Javert, but he would still like to know. Would she tease him for his affections for a man who hates dating? Who doesn’t want to date anyone, Valjean very much included?

He thinks she would. After chewing him out for all the excitement he’s had in his life. She definitely would not have approved of the idea of Madeleine but thinks she would forgive him for adopting Cosette.

Valjean finds himself wiping his eyes. It’s the onions he’s cooking on the stove, surely. He puts all thoughts of his sister carefully out of his mind, although he thinks that maybe he should talk this through with his therapist. She would definitely like to hear about his life before his arrest. So much of it is muddled and forgotten. He can’t even remember the names of his nieces and nephews, never mind their faces. He wipes another tear away and stirs the pan.

Javert is coming over at 5:30 for dinner. Valjean had wanted to show him around the garden, but it will be dark and, while Valjean’s garden is certainly serviceable, it doesn’t have as much lighting as Cosette would like. She shows him pictures of other people’s gardens on Pintrest frequently, trying to encourage him to decorate. He doesn’t have an artistic eye and so he only has one string of fairy lights hanging on the fence in the back. Cosette had insisted, of course, and who is he to deny her?

Valjean is unexpectedly nervous. It feels like a date. Like the shopping trip did, but even more so this time. It will be just the two of them. And Toussaint, but she’s a cat and hardly counts. He puts on the purple shirt Javert had him buy and wonders if he should wear a tie in his own house. He feels like he should, but when he ties a green one around his neck it looks silly so he leaves it off. He doubts he could match the color anyway.

“It’s just dinner between friends,” Valjean mutters to himself.

At 5:30, the bell rings. Valjean is almost relieved. At last, Javert is here, and it won’t be a date but they’ll have fun. He can stop worrying about what-ifs if they’re already happening.

“Fuck, that smells good,” Javert says the moment he steps in. “Is that dinner?”

“What else would it be?”

Javert snorts. “Fair point.” He looks around. “Hm. Thought there would be more stuff.”

Valjean follows his eyes. “I don’t need stuff.”

Javert glances at him. “I didn’t take you for a minimalist.”

“I’m not a minimalist,” Valjean argues. “I just… don’t need things.”

Javert gives him a long look. “Keep telling yourself that.” He huffs. “Buy things you like and put them on the walls or whatever. Your house is almost as bare as my apartment, and I hate my apartment.”

“I don’t need things.”

“What about pictures of your daughter?” Javert asks. “Or some landscape paintings? I know you’re into nature. Put shit on your walls so it doesn’t look so barren.”

Valjean sighs, reassessing his walls. Now that Javert has pointed it out, his walls are rather bare.

“And you like colors, right?” Javert continues. “It’s your house. Paint the walls whatever colors you want.” He pauses. “Okay, maybe not whatever colors. Ask Cosette to help you match them so it’s not headache inducing.”

Valjean looks at his white walls. Javert is, as usually, right. He’s not ready to start flinging color at the walls, but… wouldn’t seeing some color in his own home make him happier? Pictures of Cosette, maybe? The entire reason why he doesn’t like wearing black is to make people who see him happier. And he doesn’t like wearing white either, he supposes, but the problem with white is that he gets dirt and grass stains on them rather quickly. He doesn’t own many white things.

Javert is looking at him with a raised eyebrow. Valjean sighs in defeat.

“I’ll think about it,” Valjean says. “I’ll look into framing some photos of Cosette’s wedding day. Their photographer did a great job.”

“Hm,” Javert says, not quite smiling in triumph. “See that you do.”

Valjean shakes his head, then leads Javert further into the house. He shows him the sitting room, which is honestly more of a library with a small, out of date TV in it. Javert curls his lip at Valjean’s greenish couch and asks if he got it off the side of the road. Valjean sighs and tells him that no, he got it from a charity shop, to which Javert replies by shrugging.

“Same thing,” Javert says. “That’s maybe the second ugliest thing I’ve seen. The first is your yellow coat.”

It makes Valjean laugh, even if it’s at his own expense.

“Seriously, that damn thing is burned into my memory,” Javert complains.

“I’ll never buy yellow again, how about that?” Valjean asks.

“Fine with me.”

Finally, they reach the kitchen. Valjean waits, anxious, for Javert to take it all in. Javert sweeps his eyes over the room. This kitchen is half the reason Valjean bought this house. The second half was the garden in back.

“This is huge,” Javert says.

Valjean winces. “Ah, I don’t think so? I think it’s a pretty average size…”

Javert frowns. “Maybe I’m just used to tiny as shit kitchens like mine. It looks nice.”

Valjean relaxes. “It is nice. I find I’m cooking a lot more now.”

Javert nods. “I don’t usually cook much, so I’ll leave that to you.” He inhales through his nose. “Fuck, that smells so good. When are we eating?”

“I can pull it out now,” Valjean answers. “We might want to give it a little bit of time to cool down. It’s been cooking for over an hour.”

“Over an hour?” Javert asks. “You spent over an hour on dinner?”

“W-well,” Valjean stutters, looking away, “maybe half an hour on preparing everything and possibly twenty minutes on cooking the onions and mushrooms, but really I’ve been letting it sit there without doing much work.”

“An hour,” Javert mutters. “Damn. I’d never have that kind of patience.”

Valjean smiles, finding Javert’s impatience somehow charming when it really shouldn’t be. “Good things take time.”

Javert looks at him. There’s something different about this look than his other ones. It makes Valjean want to look away with hot cheeks. “Maybe so.”

Valjean should be a fucking chef. This fancy beef stew is fucking amazing. The meat just falls apart in his mouth and Javert must consciously stop himself from moaning at the first bite. What the fuck. No one told him beef stew could be so good. And Valjean made it from scratch! Valjean goes on about his trip to the butchers and how he only stuttered a little bit ordering the meat and how he grew the carrots himself and just. Wow. Javert isn’t often speechless, but he is now.

“This is amazing,” Javert says for what must be the third time. He doesn’t know how else to explain how good it is, how good Valjean is.

Valjean blushes, as he has every time Javert has complimented his cooking.

“I’m fucking serious,” Javert says. “I would kill for this.”

Valjean’s face turns red and he ducks his head. “It’s really nothing special.”

Javert scoffs. “Yes, it fucking is. Those sandwiches have nothing on this.”

“I haven’t made it in a long time,” Valjean mumbles, just loud enough to be heard. “I… I used to make it for my sister and her kids…”

Javert quiets abruptly. Sometimes, he forgets that Valjean had a life before his prison sentence.

“Do you want to talk about it?” Javert asks.

Valjean shrugs. “If- if you want?”

Javerts thinks Valjean does want to, and Javert surprises himself by wanting to know more than what he read in Valjean’s paperwork. He wants to know everything about Valjean.

“Explain away,” he says.

Valjean starts slowly, poking at his food with a fork. He talks about how he was much more confident in his youth, how he was terribly competitive and had a few broken bones to prove it. How he and his sister constantly competed for things, even chores such as who could mow the weeds faster or who could pick the most fruit from their small orchard. Valjean usually won at the first, due to his strength, and Jeanne at the second, because she had longer arms. He smiles sadly when talking about her.

“I… that’s almost all I can remember of my childhood,” Valjean admits. “I’ve forgotten so much. Prison just…”

“You don’t have to go on if it’s hard,” Javert says. “I understand.”

Valjean smiles at him. Javert is captured by his green eyes, so full of life now that he’s finally working on fixing himself. They used to be duller. Javert likes the way they are now and hopes they become even more brilliant.

“Thank you,” Valjean says. He ducks his head again. “I… I don’t remember the names of her children. There were seven of them. Four girls and three boys. I… I can’t even remember what they looked like…”

“I’m sorry,” Javert says. The table is too wide for him to reach over to touch him and he curses Valjean’s furniture. “I would offer to look them up, however…” He grimaces. “There was a huge loss of information from when the police switched from analog to digital. I went through your records again after the whole Montreuil sur Mer incident and only half the file was there. I remember being so pissed that half your info was just gone. I’m sorry, Jean.”

Valjean smiles at him again, this time watery. “Thank you for the thought. It means… quite a bit to me.”

He sniffs and wipes his eyes. Javert dutifully pretends he didn’t see anything.

“Eat your food,” Javert tells him. “It’s getting cold, and you don’t want to waste this. It’s the best thing I’ve eaten.”

“Even better than the clams at the other place?”

Javert catches his mouth trying to smile and smothers it down so only his lips move. “Yes, even better than the clams.”

Valjean smiles more. “Do you want some to take home? I probably made too much.”

“Of course,” Javert says at once. “I’d love to.”


 



I’d love you.


Javert stops with his fork halfway to his mouth.

He’s in love with Valjean.

The thought slams into him like a train at full speed. He’s in love with Valjean. Javert wasn’t even aware he was capable of love. For decades he thought it was beneath him, and now… Now…

“Javert?”

“Yes?” Javert answers, desperately trying to keep his thoughts together. He’s in love with Valjean.

Valjean is looking at him with concern. “Are you alright?”

“Fine,” Javert says. He eats whatever is on his fork. It tastes like love.

He’s in love with Valjean.

Valjean smiles at him.

He’s in love with Valjean.

“How were your classes this week?” Valjean asks.

Javert answers as if on autopilot. Philosophy is weird, easily his hardest class because he’s lived one way for so long it’s hard to see the other side, but he’s trying. He’s in love with Valjean. The law classes are easy and he wishes he could test out of them. He’s in love with Valjean. The lecturers are interesting, but he finds himself playing minesweeper instead of listening properly and has to listen again and so it takes him twice as long. He’s in love with Valjean. He got into an argument on the class discussion board again and still doesn’t know what the other student’s point is. He’s in love with Valjean.

It is exceedingly hard to concentrate on talking. He never noticed how often he looks at Valjean’s lips. He wants to taste them. He wants to run his hands through Valjean’s soft hair. He wants to hold his hand, no matter how calloused by gardening it is. Maybe even because it’s all roughed up from work. He wants Valjean to show him his garden and talk about the plants. He wants to help Valjean pick out colors for his walls and look at all the pictures he has from Cosette’s wedding.

He’s in love with Valjean. He’s in love. He’s in love. He’s in love.

“Please don’t get kicked out of your class for starting fights with other students,” Valjean says with a teasing smile.

“It’s not my fault that they don’t know how to formulate an argument,” Javert replies, forcing his face into its usual scowl when talking about such things when really all he wants to get up and walk around the table to kiss Valjean. He wants to smile but knows it’s ugly. All he allows himself are small quirks of his lips. Something that won’t remind Valjean of his ugliness. Even if Valjean called him handsome and striking and distinguished once.

“Most of them are probably young,” Valjean says.

Javert scowls. “You’re reminding me of my age, Jean.”

“I’m even older than you,” Valjean remarks. “If I’m making you feel old, then imagine how I feel.”

Javert almost smiles again.

He’s in love with Valjean.

By the time Javert leaves, Valjean is smiling. He doesn’t ever remember smiling so much. Javert is simply… fun to be around. Somehow. He doesn’t know how Javert went from being his arch nemesis to his friend. He decides it doesn’t matter because they are friends now and Valjean doesn’t intend to let Javert leave easily.

He thinks back over dinner and thinks that he had never seen Javert smile so much either. Is it because they were in private? Without strangers watching them? Javert is a private person; he’s complained about strangers enough for Valjean to know that much. Maybe Valjean can cook for Javert again. He would like to make them lunch so they could eat in the garden, assuming the weather warms up. It’s starting to just become spring and the rains are hitting Paris almost every day, so Valjean tells himself to wait on that idea.

The next day, Cosette calls him on her lunch break to ask how it went.

“It went very well,” Valjean answers, Toussaint in his lap. “Toussaint likes him.”

Javert had stiffly introduced himself to Toussaint after dinner, almost as if he was expecting a handshake from her. She sniffed his trousers, meowed, then walked off with her tail high in the air. Valjean had to stifle a laugh at the whole interaction.

“Uh-huh,” Cosette says. “But how did you like it?”

“I loved it,” Valjean says. “I made us beef bourguignon. I’m glad he liked it, I was worried.”

“You made him what?”

“Beef bourguignon?” Valjean answers, confused. “What about it?”

“Papa, you haven’t cooked beef bourguignon since I was in high school,” Cosette says. “And you always said that no one should eat it alone. So I know you didn’t cook it after I moved in with Marius.”

Valjean frowns. “What are you saying?”

“I’m saying, Papa, is that you like Javert.”

“Of course I like him,” Valjean says. “He’s my friend.”

Cosette makes a sound of agony. “Papa, I am begging you to listen to yourself. You don’t make beef bourguignon for just anyone! You haven’t even made it for Marius!”

“What about Marius?” Valjean asks. “We are talking about Javert.”

“You only make bourguignon for people you love, Papa.”

Valjean blinks. “What- Cosette, what are you talking about?”

“You love him!” Cosette insists. “You’re in love with him.”

Valjean laughs nervously. Why is he nervous? “I don’t- I don’t love him. We’re friends. Just friends!”

Cosette makes another sound of suffering. “I can’t believe you! You are so blind! You spent like three hours on a single meal just for him. You could have done regular beef stew, but you went all in.” She sighs. “Think about it, Papa.”

“It doesn’t matter if I- if I love him or not,” Valjean says. “Which I don’t! Javert doesn’t date, he doesn’t want to date anyone.”

“You said that he told you he was gay!”

“He is!” Valjean insists. “But he doesn’t want to date. He said it’s a pointless waste of time, but if he did date, he would date men. The important part is that he doesn’t date.”

Cosette mutters something incomprehensible that the phone doesn’t pick up. “Fine, whatever, Javert doesn’t date, but that doesn’t mean you don’t love him! Be honest with yourself, Papa. Do you want to date Javert?”

He does. He does want to date Javert. He wants to learn more about fashion that Javert is so well-versed in. He wants to see what Javert will do once he has his degree, knowing the man to be driven to the point of obsession. He wants to know Javert’s first name. He wants to ki—

“Y-yes,” Valjean admits, pushing out the other thoughts. “If he did date… I would like to date him. For real this time.”

“I knew it!” Cosette shouts. “I knew you had a thing for him from the very beginning!”

Valjean chokes. “I- I did not! He was my literal jailer!”

“Maybe not then then, but when I first met him, absolutely!” Cosette says confidently. “You totally go for angry, broody men. Your taste in men is horrible.”

Valjean smiles fondly. “He is broody, I’ll admit. And he does have a temper.”

Cosette laughs. “As long as he’s nice to you, I can accept it.”

Now Valjean’s smile turns indulgent. With only Toussaint to see it, he doesn’t mind. “He is nice to me. Exceedingly so. I once thought that he didn’t know what kindness was, but now… He is very kind to me.”

“Well, that’s good!” Cosette says. “I won’t have to send Marius’s law group after him.”

Valjean laughs again. “I think Javert would like the challenge.”

Sorry I've been inconsistent! Trying my best to keep up with this but internet has been out at my house for a week and I've actually reached the last chapter I've written so now I'll be posting as I write. Trying to keep myself focused on this project and not jump to another but boy is that hard for my adhd self :p Working on it!

Javert has never been in love before. It’s weird. His chest lifts whenever he thinks about Valjean, which is pretty damn frequently. He finds himself daydreaming of all things about what sorts of things he could talk about with Valjean. It’s distracting and he can’t decide if he likes it or not.

“How’s your boyfriend?” Gisquet asks on a somewhat regular basis.

“He’s not my boyfriend,” Javert growls. His cheeks heat against his will, thinking about Valjean maybe calling Javert his boyfriend. “I don’t have a fucking boyfriend.”

Gisquet just smiles knowingly at him. Javert wants to strangle him.

He kind of does want Valjean to be his boyfriend. Although the more he thinks about it, boyfriend is such a juvenile term. He would prefer something else. Like partner. Partner sounds more permanent. He wants his relationship with Valjean to be permanent.

He spends several days pacing his apartment and tugging at his whiskers, thinking about how to fucking deal with this. Should he come out and say it? Should he wait? Now that he’s aware that he’s in love with Valjean, he can’t imagine not being in love with him. Time with Valjean always brightens his day, no matter how frustratingly stubborn the man can be. He needs a plan for this. Plans are always helpful.

He sits down with a pad of paper and a pen to draft a plan. He titles it The Valjean Problem, then sits for a minute realizing he doesn’t really know where to start First of all, he doesn’t know if Valjean likes him back. Oh, Valjean certainly likes him as a friend, as he is always insisting that they are friends, but anything more than that? Valjean is constantly touching him with light brushes of his hands; is he a touchy person at heart or does he have an ulterior motive? Maybe one that involves, dare he say it, feelings of a romantic nature?

The first thing Javert writes is ‘Touching: Good/Bad’ and leaves a space under it for his conclusion. Valjean touches him, but the one time he touched Valjean, he didn’t seem to like it much. Or maybe that was just that one time? Clearly, he’ll have to do more research.

Next up is ‘Buying drinks: Yes/No’ and again leaves a space for a conclusion. Valjean has always bought him drinks, maybe he would like to be treated for once? Or maybe Valjean would find it somehow offensive. Javert doubts that, but he doesn’t know yet. Experimentation is needed. Hopefully, he can finally work out when Valjean wants specific drinks because Javert hasn’t quite got the pattern down yet. He wants to be able to anticipate Valjean’s needs down to what he wants to order every day.

He taps his pen on the table as he tries to think of the next item. As much as he hates it, Cosette might be able to help him. He writes ‘Contact Cosette?’ as a maybe. He leaves lots of room for whatever she may tell him. It’s not something he’s looking forward to. Hell, it’s something he may not even decide to go through with. It feels a bit too much like going behind Valjean’s back. Cheating at this game of… seduction? Javert makes a face at the very thought. He wants Valjean to like him back, yes, but he doesn’t want to force the man with tricks. Javert has always been terrible at lying, even when lying was the easier option and the truth was harder. He sighs. He puts another question mark after Cosette’s name.

‘Go shopping again: Yes/No’ is the next thing he thinks of. Valjean seemed to… well, not enjoy, but at least tolerate the first shopping trip. However, he did seem pleased with his new clothes when he wore them to the café. Javert had also been pleased to see him in new things that didn’t have stains or moth-eaten holes in them. Not that Valjean won’t get grass stains on the knees of his new trousers, Javert had never once thought he wouldn’t, but it’s still a nice change from his normal wear. Javert would love to replace Valjean’s whole closet if he’s honest. He might have a partner in Cosette with that, so he adds her name the next line down.

He can’t think of anything more than that, which is stupid. He’s only allotted for half the page. He has a whole other half a page to go.

He lets his head fall to the table with a thunk. Making lists? What the hell is he thinking? This is stupid. He is stupid. Valjean probably doesn’t want to date him. After Javert made his life hell? Valjean has forgiven him, but can something like that really be forgiven? Javert still can’t forgive himself for his actions over the past thirty years or so. How in fucks sake did he ever think that the law was more important than anything else?

To stop thinking about it, he does his philosophy homework. An essay. He hates essays, but if he treats them like reports he can power through. He also hates reports, but at least he’s used to writing them. It distracts him for maybe an hour, but then he’s right back to where he started. All this philosophy shit keeps making him think about Valjean. Valjean would be good at the philosophy shit. His thinking is far more elastic than Javert’s, who even now struggles to accept change.

He looks back at his list. Next time they meet at the café, he’s going to buy Valjean’s drink for him. And maybe try to touch him in a non-obtrusive way. He doesn’t want to come off as suddenly weird after all. Valjean is a skittish creature. Javert’s going to have to be patient. Patience is not one of his strong suits, but for Valjean he’ll do his best. Then next week he might suggest going shopping again. Perhaps with Cosette in tow? He’s never spent any time with her and with what Valjean has said about her makes him think they’ll either get along perfectly fine or they’ll be at each other’s throats. Cosette is as irritatingly stubborn as her father and Javert is equally stubborn himself.

He sighs. He had no idea that being in love was so hard to plan for.

Still working on this!! I've just been slow >.>

“Let me,” Javert says the next time they have lunch. He’s pulling out his wallet already.

Valjean frowns. “I always get you coffee.”

Javert huffs. “Yes, and this time I want to buy. Is that so objectionable?”

Valjean sighs. “If you wish. It’s really no trouble though.”

“But would it make you happy?”

“What?”

“Me buying your drink,” Javert clarifies.

“…What?”

Javert growls in frustration. “Do you want me to buy your fucking drink or not?”

Valjean frowns. “I don’t have an opinion either way…? But I know it’s rather expensive here so… I suppose I would rather pay? Just to ease the burden on you.”

Javert looks at him, evaluating his answer with more scrutiny than Valjean thinks it deserves. “Fine. I’ll buy your drink today, but then we can go back to normal if you want.”

“We can alternate if you’re uncomfortable with me buying your coffee?” Valjean suggests.

“I’m not uncomfortable. I’m trying to see what makes you happy.”

Valjean blinks, very confused. “Okay…?”

Javert makes a quiet sound of frustration. “What do you want today? Black tea?”

“Latte today.”

“Hm.”

Javert orders and they go stand by the pickup counter.

“Why are you suddenly so concerned with my happiness?” Valjean asks.

“Because I want to see you happy?” Javert answers, like it’s obvious. “I thought changing it up might be interesting.”

“But… do you object to me buying?” Valjean asks, suddenly worried Javert has been harboring annoyance for months now.

Javert huffs. “No, it’s fine. Just thought I’d see if you thought it should be different.”

“I like buying you things,” Valjean says. “But if you want to buy your own coffee, that’s fine too.”

Javert waves him off. “You can buy next time, and any time after that. I’ll always accept coffee.”

Valjean smiles.

The barista calls Javert’s name and picks up their drinks. Valjean is suddenly aware that he doesn’t know Javert’s first name.

“Hey, Javert?”

“Hm?”

“What’s your first name?”

Javert frowns. “I don’t use it.”

“I gathered,” Valjean says with a slight smile. “I would still like to know.”

Javert rolls his eyes. “It’s Emile, but I don’t respond to it. Everyone has just called me Javert for nearly as long as I can remember.”

“Emile,” Valjean repeats to himself. “Do you mind if I call you that?”

Javert shifts uncomfortably. “I’d rather not. Like I said, I don’t respond to it. It doesn’t feel like it’s mine.”

“Alright,” Valjean says. “Thank you for telling me.”

“No problem.”

Valjean leans in to brush shoulders with him. Javert stiffens for a moment and Valjean is quick to bring an apology on his tongue, but instead of pulling away Javert puts his hand lightly on the small of Valjean’s back as if to steady him. Valjean ends up swallowing his unspoken apology and doesn’t know what to do. Javert has only initiated touch once and Valjean had been so startled by it that he ended up not doing anything about it. This feels… intimate. It shouldn’t be. They’re just friends.


Papa, you’re in love with him.


Cosette’s words come back to him and he feels his face grow hot. But he doesn’t pull away from Javert’s hand on his back either because—


 


“Jean?”

“Y-yes?”

Javert frowns and pulls his hand away. “Did I make you uncomfortable?”

“No,” Valjean says quickly. “It- it was fine.”

Javert watches him for a moment. “Hm. If you say so.”’

You’re in love with him.

Cosette is right. He is in love with Javert. Even with his brusque mannerisms, scowling expressions, and quick temper, Valjean is in love with Javert.

He hides his blushing face behind his coffee cup and hopes Javert doesn’t notice.


“You’re being weird,” Javert says, usual scowl on his face.

“I am not,” Valjean replies quickly to hide that he is, in fact, being a little weird. “You’re the one being weird.”

Javert wrinkles his nose at the accusation. “Maybe we’re both weird.”

It startles a soft laugh out of Valjean. “Maybe.”

Valjean responds positively towards touch, save for the first few times Javert tried it. Javert likes putting his hand on Valjean’s back while they’re in line for coffee. Valjean leans into him on occasion and does not seem to be aware of it, as sometimes he suddenly seems to realize how close they are and grow stiff and awkward. Javert finds it oddly charming. He has no idea why. It should be annoying, more proof that Valjean still overthinks himself despite him recently winning battles with his anxiety.

They do go shopping again, without Cosette. Javert hasn’t worked up the nerve to call her yet. This time, Javert picks out a brown waterproof coat with a pattern like tree bark on it. It is very Valjean. Valjean seems happy with it, touching it as if it were silk instead of polyester and nylon. Javert makes sure to help him into it whenever possible, allowing his hands to linger on Valjean’s broad shoulders. Valjean certainly doesn’t complain and the faint blush on his face on occasion is reward enough.

Most recently, Javert has been attempting to help Valjean pick out art for his walls. Javert might have a good sense of fashion, but he is certainly not an artist. This is why he suggested Cosette help him, as surely she’s much better at this kind of thing. Valjean shows him pictures on his phone of fields and sunsets and watercolor birds. Javert has no idea what would be good. It’s Valjean’s house; shouldn’t he be picking it out?

“But I can’t decide!” Valjean says when Javert voices that thought. “First, I thought photographs would be nice, but then I thought of paintings. There are so many different styles and I’m afraid I’ll get them all mismatched like my clothes…”

Javert figures that’s a legitimate concern.

“Have you painted your walls yet?” Javert asks.

Valjean shakes his head. “I’m… not ready to paint. The white looks nice and clean, doesn’t it?”

Javert rolls his eyes. “If you don’t like it, paint it white again. It’s not unfixable.”

Valjean worries at his lip. Javert’s eyes are drawn there in an instant. He wants to kiss him. A moment later, he forces his eyes away. Stupid. Valjean wouldn’t want to kiss his old hunter. That’s what people in love do, and Valjean doesn’t love him. Javert has hurt him too deeply to be loved the way he loves Valjean. He doesn’t know how to be kind or nice or soft the way Valjean deserves. Oh, he’s trying, but his frustration overtakes him every time he makes the attempt to be patient. Valjean seems not to mind, calling them friends and smiling even when Javert insults him out of habit.

Javert wonders if he’s even capable of being deserving of Valjean. He’s never been in love before, given, but even with all the recent touching and the notes Javert takes at home after every meeting he doesn’t feel like he’s enough. Valjean deserves kindness. Javert isn’t good at being kind.

However, they are friends, and Javert must be content with that. He can help Valjean into his new coat and flit his hands over those muscular shoulders and put his hand on the small of Valjean’s back, but Javert shies away from taking his hand, afraid he’ll never give it back. Javert knows he’s a possessive bastard, all those times Javert interrupted Valjean’s dates are proof enough, but he knows Valjean wouldn’t be happy if Javert sunk his claws into him.

They are friends. It is enough.

“Javert?”

“Hm?” Javert blinks, coming back to himself.

“I asked if you knew how to use Pinterest, since Cosette’s always using it and hers looks so nice,” Valjean says. “You… looked strange, just now. Are you alright?”

“Fine,” Javert assures him, because he is fine. They are friends, and even though Javert wants to kiss him and take his hand, but he can’t do that. Valjean should be able to make his own choices. If he wants to date Javert, then he’ll initiate it. As simple as that. Javert won’t force it. He’s taken too much from Valjean as it is.

“Are you sure?” Valjean asks again, damnable green eyes tight with concern.

Javert twists his lips into a small smile. Or maybe it’s a grimace. Javert isn’t good at smiling. “Seriously, Jean, I’m fine. And no, I have no fucking idea how to use Pinterest. I don’t do social media.”

Who did he have to be social with, before the protests, the bridge? Before Valjean? No one. Alright, maybe Gisquet, and before him, Chabouillet, until Chabouillet was promoted to a more political position away from the daily rabble that Gisquet and Javert deal with. Even then, they’re not friends. Work acquaintances, maybe. Coworkers that sometimes talk about not-work things. Even now, Valjean is Javert’s first and only friend.

“I have a Facebook,” Valjean says, “but only because Cosette set it up for me. I don’t really use it. It keeps changing, anyway. Too many ads.”

“Hm.” Javert shifts closer, using adjusting Valjean’s phone so he could see it better as an excuse to touch Valjean’s hands. They’re warm. “Back to your walls, are you thinking of original paintings? Or prints of famous ones? That could narrow it down.”

“Oh, I never thought of that…” Valjean says. “Hm. I think I would like to support living artists. It would be nice to have something original. Everyone has seen the famous ones, I can see them when whenever I want with Google or go to a museum. But something unique sounds nice.”

“There you go,” Javert says, letting Valjean’s phone go before he can claim Valjean’s hands for himself. “Go to some art fairs or whatever they’re called. Or contact Cosette’s friends, didn’t you say one of them was an artist?”

“Grantaire, yes,” Valjean says. “I think he does mostly graphic art, but I can ask. Maybe he has friends who do landscapes and nature art?”

“Couldn’t hurt,” Javert says. Valjean’s warmth lingers on his fingers. “We could go to a gallery or something.”

He realizes it sounds like he’s proposing a date the moment it comes out of his mouth. Then again, wasn’t dinner at Valjean’s place also kind of a date? It wasn’t really, but it was intimate and private and probably the most enjoyable dining experience Javert has ever had.

“Oh, that sounds fun!” Valjean says, smiling brilliantly in that way that makes it hard to look at him. He smiles like the sun. “I’ll look into it. When’s your next day off?”

“Friday,” Javert answers helplessly. Fuck, what is Valjean thinking? It’s totally a date. But also not. Although Javert certainly wouldn’t say no if it was.

“Friday,” Valjean repeats. “I don’t know if I’ll be able to find something by then, but I’d like to have you there with me.”

Oh yeah, Valjean’s anxiety. It will probably be good for him to do something in an unfamiliar environment, and if Javert is there to take his arm and keep him calm, what of it? He’ll take any excuse to touch Valjean, even in public when he usually hates seeing PDA. It’s selfish of him, but he likes it when Valjean relies on him. When Javert can see he is needed. He doesn’t want Valjean to have a panic attack, but he wouldn’t say no to holding Valjean’s hands through one should it occur.

He’s probably a terrible person for almost hoping Valjean has a bad time just so Javert could cheer him up.

“Friday, then,” Javert says.

Valjean smiles at him.

So updates will be sporadic at best forgot to tell yall that but we're sort of back! Also super short chapters are fun. We will have long chapters soon enough.

It turns out that Cosette’s friend Grantaire does not do the kind of art that Valjean has in mind. He does more bold lines and strong colors where Valjean is looking for something more natural and softer.

However, a different friend of Cosette’s does do art that Valjean is interested in. Their name is Jehan and they do acrylic paintings on antique fans for the most part. Their work is small and delicate and Valjean spends almost an hour scrolling through the portfolio they emailed him. He hasn’t decided which one to buy or if he wants to commission one just for himself, but Jehan assures him that there’s no rush.

In the meantime, Valjean finds a gallery that’s opening on Friday featuring a number of artists with various styles and mediums with a general theme of the fields and meadows in southern France. Looking at the website, Valjean thinks he’ll enjoy it. He’s never been to a gallery show before, only the ones for kids when Cosette was still in school. He doubts Javert had even that experience, then wonders why he suggested they go at all. From the disinterested way Javert was looking at the art on his phone, he doesn’t seem to appreciate art as much as Valjean does. Yet he suggested they go together.

Now that Valjean thinks about it, it kind of sounds like a date. His face heats, thinking about it. They’re not dating. He may be in love with Javert, but Javert certainly doesn’t return his feelings. He doesn’t know how Javert would act if he somehow did love Valjean in return, a thought that makes his heart flip in his chest, but surely he would act differently. Javert is always so sure of himself. He would ask, and if Valjean decided to say no for some reason, then he would shrug and continue their friendship as if nothing happened.

Javert doesn’t date. There’s no reason to believe that Javert could fall in love with him anyway. Valjean is still anxious, still has days where he’d rather hide in bed all day and only Toussaint’s incessant meowing for food can get him upright. He’s doing better, certainly, but he’s not as far along as he’d like to be. His therapist says that people heal at different rates, but Valjean just wishes his was faster. Javert wouldn’t want to date him as he is now, and Valjean doesn’t know how to speed up his healing.

Besides. They’re friends. It’s more than Valjean could ask for. Valjean himself hasn’t dated since he was first arrested and is terribly out of practice. He barely remembers the girl he was dating, unable to remember her face or her name. She was headstrong and stubborn though, unafraid of anything, and Valjean thinks he may have a type as Cosette keeps insisting.

Javert has never been to an art thing, save for those few times he’s been called to galleries and museums for acts of vandalism or theft of more minor works. He doesn’t know what to wear, afraid of overdressing and looking like an idiot. He looks through his closet and finds several shirts he could wear, picks out a pair of his nicer slacks, and dithers over what coat to pair with it all before saying fuck it and decides on his usual long grey coat that Valjean had mentioned he liked. It takes another fifteen minutes to decide on a shirt though and ends up picking a navy double breasted turtleneck that looks more like a sweater than a shirt. He braids his hair carefully in a style different from his usual, one that’s a bit tricky to do himself, but it looks nice. He hopes Valjean notices.

This may not be a date, but damn if Javert isn’t going to pretend it is one. It may be the closest thing he can get to something real. And, if Valjean objects and tells him to back off, he will. Javert is kind of hoping he won’t notice tonight, at least not immediately.

He knows in theory how dates are supposed to go, but honestly, he was more of a one-night stand kind of guy when he was doing shit like this when he was younger. He doesn’t know how to make it romantic and not rushed. Valjean would be better at this, he thinks, and then he imagines Valjean smiling at him and taking his hand shyly and kissing him on the cheek—

He doesn’t get much done in the half an hour before he has to leave, lost in the fantasy of it all.

When Valjean looked at the website, the gallery looked small and cozy. It’s the opening night for the current collection and Valjean hopes he can find something here, or that it will at least spark inspiration.

When he arrives, he abruptly realizes he was wrong.

The gallery is huge, two levels of big floor to ceiling glass windows on two sides of the building are lit up with golden light, men in suits and women in cocktail dresses drifting from wall to wall with champagne glasses in hand. Valjean looks down at himself. He didn’t pay much thought to his dress today, thinking it was going to be a more casual affair. His faded green shirt has a medium sized hole in the hem on the left side and he still hasn’t replaced his trainers like Javert suggested a month and a half ago.

He is, by far, the most underdressed person here. All the times Javert teased him about looking like a homeless person come to mind, echoing more cruelly than he knows Javert said them. Like the Javert of old who hated him more than anything came back to life.

He walks quickly to the side of the building where the walls aren’t made of glass and pulls out his phone.

I don’t think I can do this, he types to Javert. His hands are trembling.

Javert’s response is a simple, ?. Another message sends seconds after. I’m almost there.

Valjean clutches his phone like a lifeline and focuses on his breathing. Deep breath, hold it, let it out. He closes his eyes against the traffic and the nicely dressed people walking by. His blood pounds in his ears and he can feel a drop of sweat dripping down the back of his neck.

This was a mistake. He shouldn’t have come here. He should have researched more, should have come here yesterday or the day before to scope it out.

His phone buzzes.


I’m here. Where are you?


Outside, Valjean types shakily. Around the corner.

A minute later, Javert finds him.

“Jesus, Jean,” Javert says. “Couldn’t you have fucking warned me about the dress code?”

Valjean flinches. “S-sorry… I- I didn’t know…”

“Hey.” Javert’s hand rests lightly on his elbow. “I figured that. I was being sarcastic.”

Valjean flinches again. “Sorry…”

“Jean.” Javert’s hand leaves his elbow and takes Valjean’s phone out of his hand. A moment later, both of Javert’s hands take his, forcing them out of the tight fists Valjean had them in. “We don’t have to go.”

One part of Valjean latches onto the idea immediately. Yes, please, let’s go home instead, it says.

However, another, stronger part of him that sounds oddly like Javert is saying, No, fuck this, we’re going.

“I- I want to go,” Valjean forces out. He tries to take a deep breath, only managing to count to three before exhaling. He tries again, holding on to Javert’s hands for dear life.

“How can I help?” Javert asks.

Valjean opens his eyes for the first time since Javert reached him. Javert looks… good. Under his normal coat, he’s wearing a dark shirt that buttons on two sides of his chest, giving it a sort of modern look yet still remaining very Javert-like. He’s wearing an unfamiliar pair of black dress shoes that are slightly different from the heavier boots that he wears for work. They’re polished to a nice shine. His trousers are black, as Valjean expected, but still have creases down the front in that fancy way and look almost new. He really dressed up. Maybe not to the level of what the gallery is clearly expecting, but he certainly put more thought into his outfit than Valjean did.

“Jean?”

Valjean blinks, trying to refocus.

“How can I help?”

Javert’s face is ill-suited to worry, but Valjean thinks the oddly pained expression on his face is something close to it.

“C-can you count to five?” Valjean asks.

Javert’s thick eyebrows scrunch together. “Why?”

“Helps me breathe.”

“Alright. One.”

Valjean closes his eyes again and focuses on Javert’s voice. Having someone he trusts ground him while he’s like this is far more comforting than waiting for the panic to go away in a small room by himself. He loses count of how many times Javert counts to five, but his hands are warm in Javert’s by the time he feels more like himself.

“Thank you,” Valjean says quietly. He expects Javert to let go of his hands, but he doesn’t. Valjean is glad.

“Don’t worry about it,” Javert says. “You haven’t had a panic attack in a while, right?”

Valjean nods, holding tight to Javert’s hands again.

“Then you’re getting better,” Javert remarks. “I never expected you to get over your anxiety so soon.”

“It’s been months,” Valjean says, somewhat ashamed. “I- I should be—”

“Hey,” Javert interrupts, squeezing his hands around Valjean’s. “This shit doesn’t happen overnight. Don’t worry about it.”

“But—”

“Damnit, Jean,” Javert growls. “I told you not to fucking worry about it. Stop it.”

It startles a strained laugh out of Valjean. “Okay. I’ll try.”

Javert’s lips twist into the closest thing he gets to a smile. “Good. Are you still set on going?”

Valjean looks towards the gallery, watching people in clothes much fancier than his flash their tickets and enter. He’ll stand out, that’s for certain. He doesn’t want to stand out, get stared at. However, he wants to see the art, and, more than that, he wants to spend time with Javert in the golden light of the gallery and maybe drink a glass of champagne with him. Like it’s a date.

“Y-yes,” Valjean says, still shaken by his panic attack. He takes a breath. “Yes, I want to go. Y-you dressed up and everything.”

Javert snorts. “I would have dressed up more had I known I was expected to wear a suit and tie.”

“Do you… own a suit and tie?”

Javert’s lips curl up. “Fuck no, But I have nicer clothes than these.”

“I think I might have one,” Valjean says. “Left over from Montreuil-sur-Mer.” He pauses. “It’s… probably out of style now, isn’t it?”

Javert shrugs. “Suits tend to stay the same for the most part. It’s when you get into expensive designer shit that the style actually matters.” He eyes Valjean, looking him up and down in a way that makes Valjean blush. “You’d look good in green though. Olive, maybe pine.”

“I’d have nowhere to wear it,” Valjean objects.

Javert gestures to the gallery. “We could do this again. I’ll even rent a suit.”

Valjean tries to imagine Javert in a suit. It doesn’t work. Valjean can only imagine him in his scuffed boots and long grey coat, hair tied up in a queue with a cigarette at his lips. He would be scowling.

“I can’t imagine you in a suit,” Valjean says, smiling at the image. “You’re too active to be trapped in something so stiff.”

Javert huffs a silent laugh. “Yeah, I hate them. Stupid fucking starched collars are the worst. Itchy as hell. And the stomach belt thing? What’s even the point of that? Give me a waistcoat and a dinner jacket; that’s all I’ll agree to.”

“Maybe I should take you shopping,” Valjean says. “I’d pay.”

Javert shakes his head. “I wouldn’t ask that of you.”

“But what if I want to?”

Javert looks at him, dark eyes examining him as if he’s doubting that Valjean is telling the truth. Finally, he looks away with a roll of his eyes.

“Only if we start doing this fancy shit on the regular,” Javert agrees. “And nothing too expensive. I can always get it altered; that’s less expensive than something bespoke.” He pauses. “If you’re serious, then you will be buying a suit. Tailored to you, because your proportions are irregular and you shouldn’t alter suits too much or things get weird.”

Valjean opens his mouth to argue that he doesn’t need anything specially made for him either.

“And,” Javert continues, “really, only if we go to fancy things more than a couple of times. I’m not good at fancy things.” He scowls. “Grew up too poor to fit in, I guess. I’m too rough around the edges to really enjoy things like fancy parties or whatever.”

“We can not fit in together,” Valjean says, squeezing Javert’s hands that he’s still holding. He can’t believe Javert hasn’t pulled away yet.

Javert almost smiles. “So, are we going in or not?”

Valjean glances at the gallery door. “I… Yes. Yes we are.”

Javert releases their hands. Before Valjean has the time to mourn the loss, Javert is offering his arm.

“Come on,” Javert says. “You always do better with physical contact.”

Valjean’s cheeks heat the slightest amount. Even he didn’t realize that about himself, but now that he thinks about it, Javert is correct.

He puts his hand on the inside of Javert’s offered elbow and takes a steadying breath. “Alright.”

Oh my god it's 40 chapters. What the fuck. That's a lot of chapters and yes I know they're short but /what the fuck/

None of the art they look at actually exists except the cubist one, but I had a fun time making them up!

Javert can’t fucking believe that Valjean didn’t make an effort to dress up.

…Actually, yes he can. Valjean could have at least worn one of his new shirts though.

Valjean flashes his tickets. The doorman looks at him with confusion, but catches sight of Javert’s glare and quickly rushes them in. Their coats are taken at the door, leaving Valjean in nothing but a pair of grass-stained jeans and an old long-sleeved green shirt that’s seen more washes than it should have. Javert is just glad it’s a color he looks good in. If they spin it right, Javert could say it’s some weird fancy ‘distressed’ designer look—

Who the fuck is he kidding. He can’t lie to save his life and Valjean will get anxious immediately if someone asks. This was probably a mistake. Damn. Javert should have done some research of his own instead of letting Valjean handle it. How was he to know that art shit was this fancy? He thought only expensive art was this fancy.

…Unless Valjean didn’t even look at the price tag on these paintings. Which is entirely likely. Javert looks up at the ceiling and prays to a god he doesn’t believe in.

At least he got to hold Valjean’s hands through a panic attack like he was almost wishing for?

Valjean’s hold on his arm is like a vice. Javert remembers that first time, months ago when Valjean grabbed him in line, where Javert stopped having feeling in his hand within minutes. He hopes Valjean remembers himself enough not to give Javert permanent damage. They’re getting looks, to which Javert faces them down with a glare and a scowl until they get the hint to look away.

“Should- should we start from the bottom or the top?” Valjean asks, voice shaking slightly. He’s talking at Javert’s chest and he looks somewhat pale, but Javert can still feel his arm so he’s going to consider it a success so far.

Javert had no real preference, almost saying as such before he realizes that Valjean probably isn’t in the right headspace to make decisions, no matter how insignificant.

“Top to bottom,” Javert says. “I think the stairs are over there.”

Valjean takes a calming breath, noticeably relaxing his hold on Javert’s arm. “Okay. Okay.”

Javert leads them to the stairs, making a slight detour to a table holding what he thinks is champagne. He doesn’t think he’s ever had champagne while sober and has no real memory of if he likes it or not. He takes a glass anyway, needing something to do with his other hand. Valjean hesitates, looking up at Javert.

“What?” Javert asks. “Wait. Fuck. Your meds. Do they interact badly with alcohol?”

Valjean blinks. “I… I never asked. I wasn’t warned against it…”

Javert shakes off Valjean’s hand and draws his phone out of his pocket. When he looks at it, it’s actually Valjean’s from when he took it during Valjean’s panic attack. He hands it back before taking out his own phone.

“Let’s google it,” Javert says. “I don’t want to go to the fucking hospital again.”

Valjean laughs, sounding strained, but he laughs. He gives the names of his anti-depression and anti-anxiety medications and Javert plugs them into a website that will hopefully tell them if mixing them with alcohol will kill Valjean or not.

“Says it might make you drunk faster,” Javert reports. “Wasn’t planning on having more than one, so you’re probably good.”

He puts his phone away and takes another glass off the table, offering it to Valjean. Valjean takes it, hesitantly smiling at him. Javert makes his own attempt at a smile.

“Cheers?” Valjean asks, holding up his glass.

Javert touches glasses with him. The sound they make is a clear, pleasant chime. Damn, this art thing really went all out. Only expensive crystal makes a sound like that.

Javert offers his arm. “Upstairs, then?”

Valjean is quick to take his arm again and Javert fights feeling pleased about it. What a selfish asshole he is, taking advantage of Valjean’s anxiety like this.

They make it to the second floor without incident and actually start looking at the art. The ones they start with are more abstract, colors blotted on the canvas in a way that, if he squints, Javert guesses could be a field or a forest at dawn. He supposes the colors are pleasing enough, but he’d prefer an actual scene. Probably. He’s not exactly into art. He looks at the little card on the wall next to the painting and almost chokes.

Six thousand euros.


What the fuck.


“Are you okay?” Valjean asks, looking at him in concern.

“Fine,” Javert lies badly, trying not to think of the price tag that’s more than his monthly salary. He takes a sip of champagne he doesn’t taste and quickly changes the subject. “Do you like this one?”

Valjean looks at it for a long moment. “Maybe. I like the colors.”

“They are nice colors,” Javert agrees. He takes another sip of champagne and makes a sound of surprise. “Jean, taste this. It’s fucking good.”

Valjean takes a sip and makes an appraising face. “Yes it is, although I wouldn’t use that language. Especially in this setting.”

Javert huffs a silent laugh. “Do you think I care what these rich assholes think of me?”

Valjean looks down to hide a smile. “Of course not.”

“That’s right. And you shouldn’t either.” Javert gestures to the crowd. “You could probably buy all the art in this gallery no problem.”

Valjean looks at the card next to the art and blinks at it before admitting, “Yes, I could.”

Javert can’t fucking believe how filthy fucking rich Valjean still is. It’s ridiculous. And he still dresses himself like a homeless man, refusing to buy new clothes unless Javert makes him. He’s so fucking frustrating. Javert both loves and hates him for it.

“I haven’t looked at my investments lately,” Valjean says. “At this point I can basically live off the interest.”

“Jean, you hardly spend anything.”

“I give to charity!”

Javert rolls his eyes. “That’s not exactly a living expense.”

“I don’t know what to do with it, that’s all!”

“Give it all to charity if you don’t want it.”

Valjean bites at his lip. “If… if you donate too much, they make a big deal out of it. So I don’t do that, even though I should. I don’t want the attention. I’m always looking for new charities to send money to, though, just to spend it faster.”

Javert shakes his head. “Fine, whatever. Be one of the richest people in Paris and still not take care of your fucking clothes.”

Valjean huffs, clearly fighting a smile at the insult. “Let’s go look at a different artist.”

Javert rolls his eyes, something like fondness in the gesture that he can’t filter out, and obediently follows.

The next artist is not Javert’s cup of tea. The colors don’t work together as much as the previous art they looked at, and there’s a lot of harsh lines defining the edges of things rather than looking more natural. He glances at the card, valiantly ignoring the price tag for his own health, and reads that it’s in the style of cubism. Whatever the fuck that means. Thankfully, Valjean moves on rather quickly.

The next ones are… blurry. That’s the only way Javert can describe it. Everything is out of focus, like he’s not wearing his contacts but even worse than that. It almost makes his head hurt. There’s some kind of figure in the distance of each one, but he can’t make them out with how damn blurry it is. It’s frustrating. He looks at Valjean instead.

Valjean’s white hair is too long again, but some parts are lit up gold from the lights making him look like a particularly disheveled angel. Even dressed as poorly as he is, he’s still absurdly handsome. Javert is lucky to have him on his arm, lucky to pretend they’re on an actual date.

Although, if they were actually dating, Javert would have replaced Valjean’s wardrobe by now. Enough is enough. If Valjean doesn’t want to show off his wealth, that’s fine enough with Javert. But this? Holes in his shirts and cheap shoes that are falling apart? Javert can’t stand it. He resolves to bring Valjean on another shopping trip sometime soon to replace those shoes with something more lasting. And maybe bring him to a store that stocks those long-sleeved shirts Valjean likes wearing, but better quality so they’ll actually last. He’ll have to do some reconnaissance for both of those.

Valjean moves on from the blurry paintings to Javert’s gratitude.

The next set are watercolors featuring animals in fields and forests, rabbits and foxes and the like, but one of them has a wolf leaping out of the grass towards the viewer with a particularly fierce look on its face. Javert likes it. It has a clear subject, it has emotion, it has action. It’s something he could stand looking at for long periods of time.

“It’s you,” Valjean says, nudging him.

Javert rolls his eyes, but his lips lift up in a smirk. “Not anymore.”

Valjean squeezes his arm as if in reprimand. “You’ll always be as fierce as a wolf. And you still have those sideburns of yours.”

That startles an actual smile out of Javert, lips pulling up to show his teeth. He catches himself quickly and smothers it as soon as he can. Luckily, Valjean is still looking at the art.

“I like that one,” Valjean says after long minutes, nodding to a painting of a brown and white bird. The card next to it says it’s a eurasian skylark, and that it’s selling for only two thousand euros. Javert tries not to give a reaction to the price this time, but what the fuck.

“Cosette used to sing quite frequently as a child,” Valjean says, a wistful smile on his face. “I called her my little lark.”

“You should get it,” Javert says. “It would go with your photos of Cosette. And the green in the grass in that one would be good on your walls.”

Valjean bites at his lip. “You think so?”

“You like it, don’t you?” Javert asks.

Valjean looks at the painting some more. “I’ll… I’ll think about it.” He tugs on Javert’s arm. “Let’s go see the first floor.”

Aaaaaaa I got eaten by writers block disease I'm sorry ;-; Updates will be "whenever it gets written" so uhhh expect erratic updates. Here is the conclusion (sort of) to the gallery not-date!

Despite the prickling of eyes on the back of his neck, Valjean is having a good time. He’s glad he decided to come in, and with Javert at his side glaring away any particularly nasty looks, it’s almost relaxing. He is so, so glad Javert is with him. If not for Javert, he most definitely would have gone home. Javert hasn’t asked for his arm back and Valjean is too afraid to let go. Not that he wants to; he wants Javert at his side all the time.

In the light, Javert’s shirt is navy. It’s almost the most colorful thing Valjean has seen the man wear when he’s usually dressed in blacks and greys or simply his uniform. The buttons on each side of his chest are a dull silver, catching the light sometimes. Without his coat, it’s obvious how strong and slender he is. Slender enough for Valjean to want to start buying him food when they meet up for lunch. Javert usually subsists on coffee alone. Even without his long grey coat, he still cuts an intimidating figure. Even his hair…

“Did you tie your hair differently?” Valjean asks.

Javert keeps his eyes on the stairs. “Yeah. Did a four-strand braid instead of a three.”

His cheeks seem redder than usual. Is he embarrassed Valjean noticed?

“I think you look really nice tonight,” Valjean tells him when they reach the ground floor. “I’ve never seen you wear that shirt before.”

Javert’s face goes redder. “Thanks,” he says, almost as if he’s choking out the word. He takes a long sip of champagne, like he’s trying to hide his face with the glass—

Oh, he is trying to hide his face. That’s adorable. Valjean can’t help but smile indulgently at him.

“You always look good,” Valjean says, interested to see how red he can make Javert’s face go. “Tonight though, you look extra good.”

Javert mutters something into his champagne glass, cheeks decidedly flushed. Valjean can’t help the smile on his face. Good Lord, he is in love with this man.

“Let’s start over here,” Valjean says, leading Javert over to one corner of the room.

This artist’s work is far more abstract than the others they’ve looked at so far. If he tilts his head, Valjean can get an… impression of a horse. At least he thinks it’s a horse. There’s a lot of horse-like colors, at least. Maybe a cow?

“What do you think of this one?” Valjean asks Javert, who is scowling at the art.

“I don’t see the point,” Javert says. “I see lines and random colors and I have no fucking idea what it’s supposed to be.”

“I think it’s a horse.”

“How the fuck is that a horse?”

“This line here,” Valjean says, pointing, “it’s like… the back? And these are the legs?”

Javert squints. “…Yeah, I don’t get it.”

“The colors make me think of a horse.”

“How do colors make you think of a horse? What the fuck does that even mean?”

Valjean opens his mouth to explain when someone clears their throat behind them. He can feel Javert tense under his hand, likely in annoyance. He always seems to hate it when they’re interrupted and Valjean has no idea why.

They turn. A man who’s not in a suit but a fancy blue dress shirt and black slacks holding a clipboard is looking at them. Possibly the curator if the name tag is anything to go by. His eyes are not kind and Valjean’s whole body tenses up. Beside him, Javert shifts so he’s slightly in front of Valjean.

The curator looks at the pair of them for a moment, eyes lingering on Valjean’s decidedly unprofessional clothes with almost a sneer on his face.

“What do you think of the art, Monsieur?” he asks, stressing the honorific.

“Oh, w-well…” Valjean stutters. “I… I think it’s a horse?”

The curator does not seem to be impressed with that answer and sniffs.

“What?” Javert asks, scowling at the man.

The curator looks Valjean up and down with a look of distain. “I should have expected such a… common answer from someone like you.”

Valjean flinches, looking down at his shoes that are falling apart.

“What the hell is that supposed to mean?” Javert asks, stepping partly in front of Valjean. His hand has slid down Valjean’s arm and is now gripping Valjean’s own hand. “We’re here for the art. Isn’t art supposed to be subjective?”

A flicker of a sneer appears on the curator’s face. “The art displayed here is of a much higher tier than what you’ve clearly been exposed to.”

Valjean has no idea what that means, but it’s getting harder to listen when there is a roaring sound happening to his ears. He’s squeezing Javert’s hand harder that Javert would likely appreciate, but Javert hasn’t let go and that’s giving Valjean the strength to not burst into tears or curl up on the floor or both immediately.

“Are you seriously judging someone for their looks after they’ve paid whatever exorbitant entry fee to even get in here?” Javert asks, a hard edge to his voice. “We have proof of payment.”

“It’s not you I’m questioning,” the man says. “It’s him.”

“Excuse me?” Javert says, low and deadly. “Care to say that again? Care to tell me what you think of my friend here? The one who purchased the tickets? The one who was looking to buy something tonight?”

The curator scoffs. “Like he could afford anything here.”

Javert barks a harsh laugh. “You know nothing of us. Of him, especially.”

The curator must make some kind of rude expression, Valjean has long since closed his eyes and curled his shoulders in, as Javert’s hand in his turns crushing.

“Does the Man of Mercy ring a bell?” Javert asks in a growl. “You know, the anonymous donor to nearly every charity in the city?”

“What does that have to do with anything?”

“You’re looking at him.”

Valjean flinches again, praying desperately to disappear already.

The curator pauses. “Him?”

“Him,” Javert affirms. “He was interested in a painting upstairs, but you went and gave him a panic attack, so we’ll be leaving.” He removes himself from Valjean’s hand and his arm reappears around Valjean’s broad shoulders. “Fuck knows he’s too forgiving for his own good, but I think you just lost yourself a buyer and a possible donor.” He turns.

“But—!”

“Come on, Jean, let’s get the fuck out of here,” Javert mutters, paying no mind to the speechless man behind them.

Valjean doesn’t remember walking through the gallery to leave, but they must have since the next thing he knows he’s outside around the corner without a champagne glass in his hand. Javert must have taken it. It’s chilly without his coat. He shivers, and soon enough Javert is pushing the coat he picked out into Valjean’s arms.

“What an asshole!” Javert fumes, helping Valjean into his coat. “Harassing you just because you’re not in a suit! What the fuck? What kind of idiot runs a business with an attitude like that? I’ll write the gallery a thorough review on their website and tell everyone what the fuck happened here, or send a strongly worded email, or- or something! Fuck!”

Javert swears a bit more, stomping up and down the sidewalk in front of Valjean with his long grey coat tangled around his calves. Valjean dimly notices he’s sitting on a bench. He looks up. There’s a bus stop sign fastened to the street lamp next to him. Huh.

“Enough about that fucking dick,” Javert says. He comes and sits on the bench next to Valjean with a huff. “God, what a shitshow.”

“It,” Valjean takes a shaking breath. “I-it’s my fault—”

“No it’s fucking not,” Javert counters. “You paid for your ticket. It shouldn’t matter what you’re dressed like. If it were a free show then yeah, they might have a reason to kick you out, but you paid for the right to be there.”

Valjean is quiet, mostly because his throat is closed up so tight it hurts. They sit in silence for several minutes.

“I’m sorry about the painting,” Javert says eventually. “The bird one. It was really nice.”

Valjean nods. It was nice.

“I can try to track down the artist,” Javert says. “They probably have a website. Maybe they’ll make the sale directly to you if you make an offer.”

Valjean nods again.

Javert sighs, leaning back on the bench with his head thrown back. “Christ. Why can’t we have a single outing that goes well?”

Valjean shrugs. Half the time it seems like it’s his fault their dates go badly, and this time definitely counts. But it’s only half the time, so their luck truly is abysmal.

“Did you have a good time?” Javert asks. “Before that asshole of a curator started insulting you.”

Valjean nods. The golden light, the sparkling champagne in a crystal glass, Javert’s arm around his… It was nice to play pretend for a while, pretend that Javert was his date and might take him to a secluded corner just to kiss him for a moment… Yes, Valjean enjoyed himself very much.

But it was only pretend. Javert is just his friend and will never date him. Nor will he date anyone else, so that is something of a comfort. Sort of.

“That’s good,” Javert says. “It was nice. I liked it. You were happy.”

Valjean nods again, the faintest of smiles on his lips for a moment. He was happy.

“You look…” Javert clears his throat and shakes his head. “Never mind.”

Valjean frowns. He’s still not recovered enough to speak, but he nudges Javert leg with his own.

Javert growls, but brushes back his bangs and continues. “I like seeing you happy,” Javert mutters. “You get all…” He makes a gesture around his face. “You know?”

Valjean doesn’t know. He shakes his head.

Javert huffs. “You stop hiding when you’re happy. It’s nice. Confidence suits you.”

Valjean’s face heats and he looks away. Him? Confident? Javert must be delusional.

“Come on, Jean,” Javert says. “I’m telling the truth here.”

Valjean shakes his head and waves his hand as if to dismiss the idea.

Javert takes Valjean’s hand from out of the air and holds it gently. His fingers are smooth, although his palms are calloused. His nails, as always, are perfect. They have held hands before, during Valjean’s panic attacks, but not like this. Javert’s thumb passes over Valjean’s rough knuckles. Valjean swallows, watching him, his mouth suddenly dry.

“Is it really so hard to believe I enjoy seeing you happy?” Javert asks softly. His voice is still rough, but it sends Valjean’s heart racing. “I know today was bad for you, two damn panic attacks at the same event, fuck, you must be exhausted, but you are getting better. I like seeing the real Jean, the one who doesn’t hide. Sure, you may never be gregarious or feel comfortable going up to strangers, but that’s not you anyway. The real Jean Valjean is the one I met during the protests, the one who talked me off a fucking bridge.”

Valjean shakes his head and moves to pull his hand back, but Javert holds firm.

“I never saw the real Jean until we started doing those stupid fake dates,” Javert says. “I never saw you before then even a single time despite all those years chasing you. The profiles I wrote up for you are all bullshit now that I actually know the real you.”

Valjean is holding back tears and he doesn’t know why. It’s not like Javert is saying anything profound, but he feels seen in a way he hasn’t been in so long. He didn’t know how much he needed to hear such things from another person.

Unable to say anything, he squeezes Javert’s hand and falls into his side. Javert startles, but quickly settles. Their hands fall apart and Javert adjusts them so his arm is across Valjean’s back. It’s nice.

“You alright, Jean?” Javert asks.

Valjean nods, head on Javert’s shoulder. He’s awfully boney. Again, Valjean thinks his friend should eat more.

“Did you drive here?”

Valjean nods.

“I took public transport,” Javert tells him. “I could drive you home if you’re not up for it.”

“T-that would be nice,” Valjean says, voice barely more than a whisper.

“Then we’ll do that,” Javert says. He tenses up as if to move.

“Stay?” Valjean asks. “F-for a little bit.”

Javert pauses, then relaxes again. “Okay. Tell me when you’re ready to go.”

Valjean buries his face into Javert’s hard shoulder as if to hide himself from the world. The cruel voice of the curator still echoes through his head and he can’t forget the sharp pain of his words so quickly, but he is mostly comfortable on the hard bus stop bench and while Javert isn’t actually that physically comfortable to lay on, it’s comforting all the same to sit here like this.

Even if they’re not dating, he thinks fondly, he has this. It is enough.

Javert smokes three cigarettes after driving Valjean home and taking the subway back to his own apartment before deciding he doesn’t actually want lung cancer and should probably stop at three, even though the smoke in his lungs is helping him calm down a bit. Christ. It had been going well and Valjean was going to buy a painting, a too damn expensive painting but a painting nonetheless, and then it went to shit. He spends about an hour typing up a thorough report of what happened, not including Valjean’s name or the fact that he accidentally dropped Valjean’s pseudonym of the Man of Mercy that he uses for his charity work because that was irresponsible of him to acknowledge it publicly in the first place.

Valjean had been using that same damn name since Montreuil-sur-Mer, so tracking his money through the city wasn’t hard when Javert was still trying to arrest him. It was pinpointing his actual location that infuriated Javert. Valjean is excellent at covering his tracks, in all ways. Including digitally, which was a surprise to Javert. His factory in Montreuil made most of its money with jet beads and rosaries and other things made of jet that Javert doesn't remember, but he did have a side business of making wooden toys for younger children. He proceeded to donate almost everything he produced in the toy factory, always under the same name. The damned Man of Mercy had haunted Javert for a decade before the protests happened and he lost control of his life.

Well. He doesn’t know if he would phrase it like that now. He certainly thought he had lost control, and then Valjean had talked him out of taking his own life, irony of ironies, and now here he is, planning to quit the only job he’s ever been good at and seriously thinking of maybe asking Valjean out on an actual date, one with feelings and maybe flowers since Valjean’s so damn sentimental and into plants and shit. Now he would phrase it that he woke up, like he was underwater all his life and just going where the current took him and Valjean pulled him from the damn river anyway.

He sighs and looks back at his monitor. He copies the report, because it’s most definitely a report and not a review, and emails it to the email he found on the galley website. Then he posts it again onto their Google reviews. And Trip Advisor. And Yelp, although he doesn’t bother translating it to English for the mostly-English speaking platform simply because his English is shit and it would take too long. When he’s digitally vented his anger out, he feels better, a smirk coming over his face. He hopes that fucking asshole curator gets fired for giving Valjean an entirely unnecessary panic attack and ruining their date.

Well, it wasn’t a date, but Javert is still pretending like it was one. It was nice. Valjean had been happy. Javert wants to see him happy again.

The clock in the corner of the screen is telling him it’s two in the morning, but he’s always been a night owl and he has an afternoon shift tomorrow. He goes back to the gallery website to track down the artist. By reverse google image searching one of the animal paintings, he finds the artist’s personal website unaffiliated with the gallery. The artist, only introducing herself as ‘Sister Simplice’ in her splash page blurb, does in fact have an email to contact. Javert sends off a simple inquiry, noting that Valjean would have likely purchased her bird painting that he doesn’t remember the name of if not for the asshole curator, although he doesn’t go into much detail as she could simply look up the reviews Javert just left, and asking if it could be sold privately.

Then, satisfied with his work, he goes to bed. He feels more at peace when he closes his eyes than he has in a long time, feeling like he did something right for a change.

When he falls asleep, he dreams of golden lights and a hand on his arm and Valjean’s beaming smile.

Valjean doesn’t leave his house for nearly a week after their gallery outing, save for his trip for his therapy appointment which ended in tears and didn’t do much to make him feel better if he’s entirely honest, busying himself with his garden now that it’s officially spring. Toussaint gazes at him mournfully every time he closes the door behind him, locking her inside. She’s an older cat, but he doesn’t want her to get lost or run into the street and get run over or any number of things.

However, most of his thoughts are not on his plants or his cat, but instead on Javert and the gallery. He tries not to think about all the bad parts, lingering on the warmth of Javert’s arm and the taste of the champagne. After, Javert had driven Valjean home in Valjean’s aging car in relative silence, grumbling complaints about how he hasn’t driven stick in forever and that the brakes are shit, but not actually expecting Valjean to respond. It was nice, not being expected to speak. And he is right, the brakes do need to be replaced. Valjean just hasn’t gotten around to it yet.

He does some online shopping and buys himself a new pair of sneakers, the kind he always buys. The curator’s words had hurt, and Javert is always right about Valjean’s clothes. The new shoes aren’t as comfortable as his old ones, but the soles are firmly attached and the laces are more than threads, so they’ll probably break in at some point. He can’t do anything about the rest of his clothes right now, at least not without Javert or Cosette at his side. If he’s going to buy something new, he’s going to make sure it looks decent on him, if only for what other people will think. He probably shouldn’t be thinking like that, but even with his medication his anxiety keeps circling around to the curator’s words and his sharp look of disdain.

He texts Javert about it, and Javert tells him to stop worrying and that he looks fine most of the time, then rants a bit about how the curator was a dick and how Javert hopes he gets fired. Javert does, however, consent to spending a few hours of an afternoon with Valjean at his home rather than making him face the public of Paris at their usual café. They spend it by looking at Sister Simplice’s website on Valjean’s laptop; the same artist who did the lark painting Valjean had considered purchasing. Javert, apparently, had emailed her, but hasn’t heard anything back yet. He’s a little frustrated at the lack of response, but Valjean argues that she’s probably busy with the gallery opening and will surely get back to him when it all calms down.

It’s nice, spending time with Javert in his own home. He shows Javert the garden, which is mostly soil right now as he’s in the middle of planting so there’s not much to see, but Javert nods and asks questions at the right times when Valjean explains his plan for this season, so he must have been paying attention.

“Why don’t you have more of those string lights up?” Javert asks. “Surely just one don’t do much on its own.”

Valjean flushes, embarrassed that Javert even noticed them. “Cosette insisted. She keeps showing me other people’s gardens on her Pinterest, but… you know me. I have no eye for aesthetics.”

“It’s not a question of aesthetics,” Javert says. “I see you have a table and some chairs out here; I assume you come out and have lunch or something. It could be nice to have some light and come out here on summer nights. But you need more than just one string of lights.”

“Are you offering to help me design it?” Valjean asks, expecting Javert to turn him down at once.

Javert huffs. “It seems I am. Interior first, though. You see that at all times of the year.”

Valjean can agree to that, cheered that Javert seems to care about Valjean’s garden even if it’s just aesthetically. He knows perfectly well Javert has no interest in plants.

Then seriously considers painting his walls like Javert keeps suggesting. He wants to keep things light, he decides, and chooses a sage green to show Javert for his entryway. He likes green. He’s still hesitant about the actual act of painting, but it’s a relief to finally decide something. He doesn’t know if he should keep that color for the sitting room as well, but figured Javert or Cosette would know.

When he finally feels comfortable enough, he starts meeting Javert at their usual café again, although he is still self conscious enough to only wear the clothes Javert picked out for him.

“I need you to take me shopping,” Valjean all but pleads.

Javert’s eyebrows rise. “I thought you hated shopping.”

“But I need new clothes and I’m afraid of picking out bad things…”

Javert huffs. “You can pick things out just fine. Just no fucking yellow. Stick with browns and oranges, maybe reds that aren’t so bright. Warm purples and greens.”

“I don’t know what a warm purple or green is,” Valjean says. “This is why I need you.”

Javert looks at him with a warmer than usual look for a long moment, then he blinks and the look is gone. “You could always go with your daughter.”

Valjean doesn’t know what that look meant and he tries to ignore it. It had been nice while it was there, though.

He sighs. “She wants me to wear black and get shoes that make me taller. I don’t want to be taller and I can’t walk in those shoes. And I don’t like all the patterns she wants me to wear. I like plain things.”

“Are you looking for another outfit or what?”

Valjean sighs again. “I want to do what you keep suggesting. I need to clean out my closet and get new things.”

He doesn’t necessarily want new things, but he can’t argue that he doesn’t need them.

“Is this about what that curator said?” Javert says with a scowl. “He was a dick. Ignore him.”

“But even you say my clothes aren’t respectable!”

Javert rolls his eyes. “Fine, yes, I’ve been dying to rip out your entire wardrobe and fill it up again with new things because I know you can afford it and some of your clothes are literally falling apart, but you should want to do it for you. Not because some asshole made you feel like you should.

Valjean deflates. “You know I don’t care much about how I look. But… he was right is the thing. I want to look decent, I don’t want to get rude looks, I want to be ignored, not noticed because my clothes look bad on me.”

Javert snorts. “Like I could ever ignore you,” he mutters, probably not intending for Valjean to hear it. Like the look from earlier, Valjean doesn’t know what that means either, but he likes it somehow.

Louder, Javert says, “Alright, fine, we can go for an extended shopping trip. But first I need to see your closet, make some notes on how many shirts or whatever you want and what styles.”

Valjean opens his mouth to say he doesn’t care about style, but Javert holds up his hand and continues.

“I’m talking about long sleeves versus short, button ups or not. That kind of thing.” He looks at Valjean questioningly. “Actually I don’t think I’ve ever seen you in short sleeves. Even last summer, when it was hot as shit. Why is that?”

Valjean winces and looks away. “I have… tattoos,” he says quietly, still ashamed even after all these years. “From prison. They’re… not pretty. Not something I enjoy looking at. It’s… easier to pretend they don’t exist.”

“Oh,” Javert says. “I forgot about that. You haven’t done anything with them?”

Valjean frowns. “Like what?”

“Like getting them fucking removed,” Javert says bluntly with an irritated glare. “Or getting them altered into something you actually like. Both are decent options, and have been easily available to you for like a decade now since you’ve been in Paris. Montreuil-sur-Mer likely didn’t have easy access to tattoo removal, I wouldn’t know because I don’t have tattoos to remove, but you could have done it then too.”

“Oh,” Valjean says dimly. “I… never thought of that.”

Javert rolls his eyes. “That‘s fucking obvious, Jean. Do some research. You could remove what you can and cover up what you can’t with whatever nice things you want. Flowers and plants and shit or whatever.” He waves a hand. “I’ve never really looked into tattoos. Almost got one of Libra scales once when I was newly promoted and a little drunk, but I’m kind of glad I didn’t considering I’m close to quitting my job.”

“I think it suits you,” Valjean says. “The scales. You’re still very passionate about justice, after all. Libra don’t have to mean police justice.”

Javert frowns, tapping his fingers on the table. “I suppose so, but it would have meant police justice for me, especially then. It might not now that I’m thinking more broadly, but if I had gotten it then, I would hate it now for all I associated with it at the time I got it.”

“That’s understandable,” Valjean says. “I’m glad you didn’t get it, then. It’s… a constant reminder. I suppose if you get a tattoo you actually like it’s a good thing, but for me… it’s decidedly not.”

Javert nods and finishes his coffee. “My next day off is Tuesday. Do you want to bring Cosette along for shopping?”

Valjean blinks. “I… didn’t know you wanted to meet Cosette.”

Javert scowls. “She’s important to you. I don’t know how well we’ll get along, but I suppose we won’t know until it happens. We’ll need the carrying power at the very least if we’re going to replace your closet. She might have insight on your tastes that I don’t.”

“I’ll ask her,” Valjean says. “She’s desperately been wanting to come shopping. It’s one of her favorite things. I feel more like a doll she’s dressing up, honestly, which is why it’s so draining. She likes to have me try on a lot of things and then decides not to get any of them. Mirrors aren’t friendly when I’m changing shirts.”

“I get it,” Javert says. “I’ll be there to tone her down. I assume we’ll argue about styles considering what you’ve said, but I’ll try not to make her cry or something.”

“She won’t,” Valjean says, turning sad. “Cry, that is.”

Javert frowns. “What do you mean by that? I was being sarcastic.”

“No, you weren’t,” Valjean says with a small smile. “How much do you know about the people who had her before I adopted her?”

“You forged some papers to make her yours, you didn’t fucking adopt her properly,” Javert mutters. He huffs. “I don’t remember. I just remember the dying woman in the hospital asking for her daughter and then I said something about taking you to prison and she…” His lips twist in an ugly grimace.

“You didn’t kill her,” Valjean says softly. “She had tuberculosis. She was already dying; the cures weren’t working. It was only a matter of time.”

“I finished her off,” Javert says in a dark mutter, glaring at the table “Telling her there was no Madeleine, only a convict, and killing her hope to see her daughter… That was what was keeping her alive, and that’s how I killed her.”

Valjean takes Javert’s hand, stiff and clenched into a fist, urging it open so he can take it in his own.

“It was not your fault,” Valjean says. “Would you lay the blame at my feet if I told you I heard she had been fired, but I never followed up? I didn’t look for her; I assumed she just found another job. But she didn’t. And losing her job with me lost her everything. She was sending everything she made to the Thénardiers so they would care for Cosette.” He pauses. “They weren’t, of course, they were practically using her as slave labor, but Fantine didn’t know that. All she knew was that they asked for money, always more than the last time, and she gave it to them. Resorting to illegal sex work to pay them. She was on the street and was still paying them.”

Javert’s mouth is a firm line. “I… I should have done something. Anything other then trying to arrest her.”

Valjean squeezes his hand. “You didn’t know. That way of thinking is behind you now.”

Javert looks at the table and says nothing.

“It’s no one’s fault Fantine died. Except maybe the Thénardiers,” Valjean continues. It’s something his therapist helped him get over. “They’re the reason Cosette doesn’t cry. I have only seen her cry once, and she was a sleeping child not long after I adopted her. She was punished for it, so she stopped. And even now, she still doesn’t cry. Even in joy.” He smiles faintly. “She says I cried enough for both of us at her wedding.”

Javert hums, and they sit in silence for a while, thinking about the past.

After several minutes, Javert clears his throat.

“I’m… sorry,” he says haltingly. “For what I did. For who I was. I don’t think I’ve said that to you yet.”

“I forgive you,” Valjean says, squeezing Javert’s hand again. He can’t believe Javert hasn’t pulled away yet, but he’s not complaining in the slightest. “Javert, you are forgiven,”

“I find that hard to believe,” Javert mutters. “You’ve said it before and I believe that you mean it, but it’s… hard to accept. There was no room in my life for doubt or hesitation, back then, before the—” He pauses, scowling at himself. “Before I tried to kill myself. You changed me, Jean, and yes I was pissed about it for a long time, but it was for the best. If I hadn’t changed, I can’t imagine how much damage I would have done.”

“You were only trying your best,” Valjean insists.

“My ‘best’ was following the law blindingly, with no critical thought whatsoever, so no, I can’t accept that,” Javert says with a snarl on his face. “I took the easy route. Breaking myself out of that mold hurt, I will admit, but it was for the best.”

Javert pulls his hand away. “We’ve been through this before, Jean. I know I am forgiven, but I can’t forgive myself. Not yet, at least. Not while I’m still with the police.”

Valjean smiles sadly. “You’re right. But I will tell you that you are forgiven as many times as it takes for you to accept it.”

Javert rolls his eyes. “Fine, whatever. Are you going to text Cosette to see if she’s free Tuesday or what?”

Cosette is, indeed, free on Tuesday, and Javert is desperately telling himself he’s not afraid of her.

“She’s like, 20,” he mutters to himself, pacing his apartment on Sunday night. “What the hell does she know about anything.”

She knows a lot about Valjean. She could hate Javert on sight, and honestly Javert wouldn’t blame her as he’s generally unpleasant. She could convince Valjean to never see him again, which again, Javert wouldn’t blame her for, as it’s a miracle that Valjean has stuck around as long as he has. She could piss him off to the point where he says something stupidly hurtful in his anger and then Valjean won’t want anything to do with him anymore. Which, yet again, Javert would find a fair reason to part ways with him. He’s not a nice man and his patience is short and fuck he’s totally going to ruin this. Why did he have to ask for her to come along?

He side-eyes his heavily annotated list. He hasn’t contacted Cosette for anything regarding Valjean, or at all, like he originally wrote down. Mostly because he’s terrified she’ll see right through him and tell him to fuck off. Or tell Valjean that Javert is stupidly, moronically in love with him, and Valjean will turn him down, in his awkward, stuttering way before Javert can gather his courage to even ask himself.

She’s a wildcard. Javert hates wildcards.

He debates ducking out like a coward, telling Valjean something came up when nothing did because Javert never volunteers for overtime or anything particularly dangerous anymore. In fact, he quietly mentioned wanting to retire soon to Gisquet to pave the way for when he actually quits so Gisquet knows not to put him on stressful assignments. First, because he hates his job now, and second because he actually has a reason to not wanting to get injured. If he goes to the hospital, he won’t be able to see Valjean without wanting to rip his head off simply because hospitals piss him off. He can see to his own health, thanks, except for when he can’t. And he doesn’t want to take out his anger on Valjean, especially when the man did nothing to deserve it.

He sighs, rubbing the heels of his hands into his eyes. No, the last thing Javert is is a coward. He looked into the barrel of a gun at point blank and dared Thénardier to fire it at him for fucks sake. He can handle Valjean’s damn daughter.

The next day, Javert shows up early in the morning at Valjean’s house with a clipboard and a legal pad for the purpose of inventorying Valjean’s closet.

“I have work at two,” Javert says when Valjean opens the door. “You might have to drive me to work if this goes on too long.”

“Good morning, Javert,” Valjean says with a smile Javert still finds hard to look directly at. He holds the door open and steps aside. “Do you want breakfast?”

Javert enters and removes his coat, hanging it on the coatrack in the entryway. “Already ate. Wouldn’t say no to coffee, though.”

“You’re an addict,” Valjean chides, but he smiles as he says it.

“Better to be addicted to caffeine than other things, right?”

Valjean just shakes his head. “Whatever you say.”

Valjean leads him to his bedroom, and Javert is studiously not thinking about what other reasons Valjean could possibly have in leading Javert there, and presents Javert with an oddly plain space. Plainer than the rest of the house. The only things of note is a picture of Cosette on his desk next to an ancient glass-screen monitor, holy shit Javert hasn’t seen one of those in like fifteen years, and a pair of shining silver candlesticks on his dresser. Javert stares at them for a moment in confusion asking himself why anyone would own candlesticks anymore considering the fire hazard they present before he remembers Valjean’s priest. Bishop. Whatever.

“I told you about Bishop Myriel,” Valjean says when he notices Javert looking at them.

“I remember,” Javert says. “I forgot you had them.”

Valjean looks at them and smiles, but this smile is melancholy. “They remind me that every day is a new day. One can always start over, no matter what.”

“That’s a nice philosophy to have.”

“You don’t agree?”

“No, I mean yes,” Javert hurries to correct. “It’s not something I’ve really thought about before. But yeah, it’s nice.”

Valjean’s smile turns warmer. “I’m glad.”

He turns to his dresser and the closet beside it.

“Well, should we get started?”

“Why not?” Javert says, sitting down in Valjean’s desk chair, pulling a pen from his pocket and resting his clipboard on his lap. “Let’s start with your dresser. I’m assuming shirts and trousers?”

“Jeans, mostly,” Valjean corrects. “I have been trying to take care of the new trousers you picked out.”

Javert shakes his head. “I never expected you to keep them clean forever, Jean. I know you’re going to garden in them eventually. They’re not dressy, after all.”

“But you picked them out,” Valjean says, like that’s a reason.

“And I’ll pick out more,” Javert counters. “Don’t worry about what I think. When we go shopping, I’ll remind you which clothes you absolutely shouldn’t be used for gardening or whatever. And I’ll remind you again if you forget.” He waves a hand. “Let’s just get started. Pull things out and we’ll have three piles; one that goes in the trash, one to donate or give away, and one to keep. I’m going to keep track of everything.”

Valjean’s shoulders fall when Javert mentions throwing what he no doubt considers perfectly good clothes in the trash, but honestly. Holes at the seams and fabric worn beyond recognition- Javert has had enough.

As he expected, most of the long-sleeved shirts Valjean likes go into the trash pile. Valjean weakly argues for some, but Javert just gives him an ‘are you serious’ look before he deflates and obeys. He owns four short sleeved shirts, none of which look like they’ve been worn at all. One of them is so hideous Javert immediately deems it worthy of the trash pile, to which Valjean argues, and it ends up in the donate pile. In the end, Valjean is left with three not-awful long sleeve shirts in addition to the barely worn short sleeved shirts.

Javert takes one look at Valjean’s sweater drawer and promptly tells him to throw the whole lot away. There’s moth-eaten holes in nearly every single one of them and very few are in colors Valjean looks good in besides. Valjean argues for the soft blue sweater Javert vaguely remembers him wearing before and the green one he’s come to prefer when Javert finally taught him a little about what colors he looks good in, and Javert gives in. But just to those. The rest are divided between the donate and the trash pile depending on how misshapen they are or how many holes they have.

Then they do trousers to finish off the dresser, as Javert is absolutely not going to think about Valjean’s underthings more than he has to, because otherwise he'll be distracted and Valjean will think he's some kind of creep, and prays Valjean actually takes care of those. Valjean only owns about three pairs of jeans and they’re all in pretty bad shape, including the ones he’s wearing. Javert makes him put two in the trash pile so he has one to wear for tomorrow’s outing. Valjean has two pairs of sweat pants that Javert allows him to keep under the strict instruction to never be seen in public with them, and several pairs of workout shorts. Javert desperately tries not to think of Valjean working out for his own sanity, but tucks the thought away for later. When he’s at home. And can afford to be distracted.

“I used to go to the gym in Montreuil,” Valjean says. “I wasn’t so… anxious then.”

“I am aware,” Javert says. “I don’t know why your anxiety got worse, but that’s really a question for your therapist. I probably had something to do with it though, considering you weren’t specifically on my radar until then." He grimaces, remembering how zestfully he took after Valjean specifically because Valjean had made him look an idiot to his peers. Serving under a convict! A wanted criminal! The idea was inconceivable to him then. He’s worked hard to overcome that kind of thinking in the months following the protests, finally figuring out that he should judge people’s worth by their current actions, not their pasts. Took him a damn long time, far too many hours researching corrupt politicians and slowly realizing exactly how corrupt the laws were and how the police could be even more so and then seeing it around him, but he got there. The forced proximity to Valjean at the beginning of their now-friendship certainly helped solidify his new thinking.

Valjean hums, drawing Javert out of his thoughts. “Maybe,” he says. “But I don’t think that was everything.”

Javert shrugs, not wanting to get into a deep dive of Valjean’s psyche because that’s why Javert had him go see a licensed professional for in the first place.

“Closet?” Javert prompts.

There’s not much in there; mostly the clothes Javert picked out, a few decent-looking white button ups which may or may not be from Montreuil’s time, Javert refuses to ask for fear of the answer, and some various coats. Three coats go into the donate pile, mostly because they’re outdated as fuck, and one into the trash pile. Javert doesn’t know why Valjean kept around a coat who's waterproof plastic coating was flaking off into little blue flecks that got fucking everywhere the moment he took it out of the closet. That leaves Valjean with three decent coats other than the new one Javert picked out. One of them is Madeleine’s trademark green coat that he had worn more often than not while serving as mayor. Javert has conflicting feelings about that coat. One, memories and feelings from Montreuil-sur-Mer float to the top of his mind and are making him uncomfortable with the reminder of his past cruelty and two, a reminder that Valjean looked damn good the night of their first not-date, and three, a confusing mesh of conflicting thoughts caused by the first two points. So yeah, Javert lets him keep it, even knowing they can always find something less dated on Tuesday.

“Should we go over ties?” Valjean asks hesitantly. He looks exhausted, and it’s hardly even noon.

Javert waves a hand dismissively. Honestly, he’s tired too. His hand is even cramping from how much he’s written down. He hasn’t written much by hand since computers were invented, and fuck, he should have just brought his laptop for this. Damn.

“We can do it later,” Javert says. “Let’s clean up the floor so you don’t have to shovel through all this shit by yourself. And then you can pay me in coffee.”

Valjean laughs, and Javert feels a smile tugging at his lips.

Extra long Cosette chapter! Because this didn't want to fucking end a;lskdfj

When her Papa asked if she wanted to join him and Javert to go shopping, Cosette was happy. When Valjean clarifies it is to replace his entire wardrobe, she is ecstatic. She tries to tone down her excitement, but she’s pretty sure Valjean is aware of it anyway.

“And how is Javert?” she asks over the phone, hoping for just a scrap of information about her Papa’s crush.

“Well,” Valjean replies, which doesn’t tell her anything.

She rubs her hand over her face. Her Papa can be so dense at times.

Despite knowing Javert’s involvement in her father’s past, she doesn’t really know much about him other than that he’s trying to do better. Good, because if he wasn’t Cosette would be questioning her father’s state of mind, but that doesn’t tell her anything about what he’s actually like. Javert isn’t a handsome man, although he takes pride in his appearance if the state of his hair and nails is anything to go off of. Valjean doesn’t care what his crush looks like, which Cosette isn’t surprised by. He has no sense for aesthetics and she has long since given up trying to educate him. It’s a miracle that she has any sense of fashion at all with him raising her.

Still, knowing that at least Javert has been trying, and surprisingly succeeding, at teaching her father the basics of fashion doesn’t give her any indication on what he’s like as a person. She has reason to believe that he’s awkward when receiving affection or he would have asked her father out by now. She hopes he’s turned kinder since he tried to arrest Valjean, but she truly has no idea. They’ve hardly had any time to get to know each other given that they’ve only met twice and for less than a minute total.

Papa is nervous when he picks her up. He’s always anxious about shopping, but it’s different than usual this time.

“I hope you like him,” he tells her in the car. “Javert can be… intense.”

She has no idea what that means. Intensely kind? That doesn’t make sense, but she’ll see for herself soon enough.

“I’m sure I’ll like him, Papa!” Cosette assures him.

He smiles nervously at her, then turns his attention back to the road.

They meet Javert outside of the store Javert picked out, easily spotting him standing by the entrance with a cigarette at his lips. He really is quite tall, Cosette thinks. She thought she had remembered wrong, but no, he is at least a head taller than her father and even more than herself.

“Jean,” Javert greets them, nodding at her father. “Mademoiselle.”

“You can call me Cosette, Javert,” Cosette says with a smile. “I’ve heard a lot about you.”

Javert grimaces but doesn’t object as he did last time. “Cosette, then.”

“Hello, Javert,” Valjean says, affection clear in his voice.

How Javert hasn’t realized her father is in love with him, Cosette has no idea. And he is very much in love with him! Cosette can see that easily. It’s obvious in the way his eyes go soft and his mouth curves in a gentle smile. Cosette hasn’t seen her father make that expression at anyone who wasn’t a child or small animal.

Javert’s lips quirk up in a barely-there smile before they fall back into what seems to be his default scowling expression. He drops his cigarette to the ground and grinds it into the pavement with his shoe. Cosette looks at him with disappointment.

“Christ, I can tell he raised you,” Javert mutters, bending down to pick up his cigarette butt. “You’re making the exact expression Jean is.”

Valjean smiles at him again and Cosette wants to shake Javert by the shoulders. She looks between them pointedly, but Javert has his back turned to throw his cigarette away.

“Well, shall we?” Valjean asks, gesturing to the door.

“So eager to be done with this already?” Javert asks.

Valjean looks away.

“I’m sure we’ll have a great time!” Cosette says cheerfully, prodding her father in the side with a pointed look.

Valjean smiles tightly. “I’m sure.”

Javert rolls his eyes. “Let’s go then. The sooner we start, the sooner we finish.”

Javert has picked out a menswear store, and by the look her father is giving the place, it isn’t the same store Javert had taken him to before. It’s nice; nicer than the places she takes Marius. Maybe she should make a note to bring her husband here next time he needs new clothes.

Javert takes his phone out of his pocket. “You got rid of a lot of shit, but I’ve got some approximate numbers that we should aim for.” He eyes her father. “Please tell me you actually threw away what I told you to throw away and didn’t keep it.”

Valjean sighs, but he’s smiling. “Trash comes on Wednesday, but they’re in a bag and everything.”

“Good,” Javert says smugly.

“Can I see your list?” Cosette asks.

Javert tilts his phone so she can see it. Indeed, in the notes app, there’s a list of numbers next to clothing items.

“Ten long sleeved shirts?” she asks, eyeing her father. “Really?”

“We got rid of fifteen,” Javert informs her dryly. “He wears them a lot.”

Cosette figures that’s true. She sees dress shirts on the list. “Papa has dress shirts.”

“Yeah he does,” Javert agrees, “but they’re outdated as fuck. He hasn’t bought anything new since the early 2000s or something. He needs shirts that aren’t just white, anyway. White washes him out; he’s got enough white going on with his hair and beard.”

“Hm,” Cosette hums, looking at her father critically. “I suppose so…”

Javert takes his phone back and puts it in his pocket. “Shirts?”

Valjean sighs. “If you think so.”

Javert has definitely shopped here before as he takes them directly to the shirt section.

“Do you want more button-ups?” Javert asks.

“Not really,” Valjean answers.

“You look nice in them, Papa!” Cosette says.

“If he doesn’t wear them, then he shouldn’t buy them,” Javert cuts in with a scowl. “What’s the point of buying shit you don’t wear?”

Cosette opens her mouth to tell him it’s about the potential of wearing it, of seeing it in her closet and feeling happy about it, but figures someone as aggressively practical as Javert wouldn’t accept that answer. Marius doesn’t get it either. She huffs instead.

“Men,” she mutters to herself. Éponine would understand.

Javert must hear her because he barks a sharp, ugly sound that she places as a laugh after a moment. Cosette restrains herself from jumping at the sudden noise.

“What was that?” her Papa asks, looking between them.

“Nothing, Jean,” Javert says.

Valjean looks at the two of them for a moment, anxiety on his face, then seems to believe Javert as he smiles hesitantly at them. It’s the most positive expression Cosette has seen on his face when shopping.

“Let’s go,” Javert says. “Get him something in autumn colors, Cosette. And he doesn’t really like patterns.”

“But he’d look good in something more exciting!” Cosette objects.

“He would, but he wouldn’t wear it,” Javert says. “He doesn’t like them. I’m not about to argue with him over it; he’s too fucking stubborn.”

Cosette looks over at her father, afraid Javert might have upset him. However, Valjean is only looking down at his feet with a faint blush on his cheeks.

“Is that true, Papa?” Cosette asks him.

“Ah, yes…” Valjean answers awkwardly, glancing up and then away again. “I don’t… I like plain things, Cosette. I’m not that exciting.”

“But you would look so handsome!” Cosette insists. She glances pointedly at Javert, who is looking at his phone again but doesn’t seem to actually be reading it.

Valjean flushes further. “Ah, well… Maybe later? When I’m… less anxious?”

She raises an eyebrow and her father looks away.

“Fine,” Cosette relents. “No patterns.” If he won’t give in for the sake of what his fashion-versed crush will think of him, then he never will. “Why didn’t you say anything before?”

Valjean rubs the back of his neck. “I didn’t want to upset you.”

“You wouldn’t have,” Cosette says.

“Oh… Really?”

“Yes, really,” Cosette assures him. “I want you to look nice, but Javert has a point. You won’t wear things you aren’t comfortable in so there’s no point in buying it in the first place.”

Valjean smiles in embarrassment. “I won’t, no.”

“Are you done yet?” Javert says, giving up all pretense of looking at his list. “We’ve got a lot of shit to pick out and only so much time before the store closes.”

Valjean laughs softly, somehow charmed by Javert’s lack of patience. Cosette doesn’t get it, but she’s not the one with a crush. Frankly, if Marius was as impatient as Javert, then she wouldn’t have fallen in love with him. She shakes her head, trying and failing to glimpse what her father sees in Javert.

“What colors do you want, Papa?” Cosette asks.

He flushes. “I’m no good at picking them out,” he says. “Javert knows what I look good in.”

Javert rolls his eyes and turns to Cosette. “He’ll wear anything, given his old wardrobe, so pick some things out in warm tones that aren’t too bright. He doesn’t like the attention bright colors will bring him.”

Cosette nods. Javert tells her Valjean’s size and they split up to get a couple of things each. Valjean tags along with her and she raises an eyebrow.

“What?” her Papa asks her.

“I thought you liked shopping with Javert,” Cosette says.

Valjean looks away. “It’s not so much that I enjoy it… more that he is too impatient to spend a long time in the store.”

Cosette smiles at him. “So you still don’t like shopping.”

“No. Not even with him.”

Cosette laughs. “I’ll try not to take too long, Papa.”

Even though she really does try not to take as long as she usually does in picking things out, holding the occasional shirt up to her father to judge if he would look nice in it, Javert finds them first. He’s holding a handful of shirts in muted colors on one arm.

“You should try one of these on, Jean,” Javert says, holding out a shirt.

Her father wilts.

“Just the one,” Javert insists. “They’re all the same size and it would suck if I got the size wrong and then you bought the lot of them.”

Valjean sighs, taking the shirt. “I guess.”

Javert points him to the dressing room with the threat of another shopping trip if the size doesn’t feel right and they have to do this again.

“He doesn’t like trying things on,” Javert says to Cosette when Valjean has left. “He doesn’t like looking at his tattoos so he avoids it when he can.”

She hums in understanding. “Did he tell you that?”

Javert huffs. “Kind of. Came up when I learned he hasn’t fucking done anything with his prison tattoos that he hates. Seriously, it’s been like twenty years and he never even considered getting them removed. He’s a fucking idiot.”

Cosette is about to protest on her father’s behalf when she realizes Javert’s lips twitched upwards when he insulted Valjean. That’s interesting.

“I didn’t realize he hated them so much,” Cosette says, picking up a shirt and trying to imagine her father wearing it.

“Not that one,” Javert says. “No fucking yellow.”

She looks up at him with a questioning eyebrow. He huffs.

“He had this fucking ugly yellow coat in Montreuil sur Mer he used to walk around in,” Javert explains. “Most hideous thing I’ve ever seen in my life. He heard yellow was a happy color and bought it supposedly to make people happy when they saw him in it.” He snorts. “No, that thing was the bane of my existence. I’m so glad it’s gone. I don’t know when he got rid of it and I don’t care. He’s banned from wearing yellow now.”

Cosette laughs. “I can see him doing something like that.”

“Jean is basically colorblind when it comes to fashion,” Javert mutters. “Told him to watch a YouTube video or take a class or something, but honestly? I don’t think even that would help. He’s hopeless.”

“So you have to do it for him?” Cosette asks.

“Clearly.”

Cosette smiles. “I’m glad he has such a good friend in you.”

Javert abruptly looks away, cheeks turning red. Cosette’s eyebrows rise. Even more interesting.

“Could do better than me,” Javert mutters. “In fact, he should. I’m most of the reason why he has PTSD and all the reasons why his anxiety is so bad.” He glances at Cosette. “He told you about his past, right? How I fucked him up?”

“He did,” Cosette says. “He forgives you.”

“I know,” Javert says quietly. “I… can’t accept it. I’m still a cop. Going to quit once I get my degree in social justice advocacy, but that doesn’t matter. I’m not a good person. Never have been.” He pulls at his sideburns. “Wouldn’t blame you if you don’t forgive me on his behalf since he’s too fucking nice.”

“Javert,” Cosette says. “I am not my father’s keeper and you don’t need to explain yourself to me. Papa is free to choose his friends as he sees fit.”

“But he’s too anxious to make friends,” Javert growls. “And it’s my fault for fucking him up like that when I still blindly followed the law.”

Cosette puts a hand on Javert’s arm. He startles, looking at her with wide eyes.

“He forgives you,” she repeats.

Javert looks baffled, like he can’t conceive of a world where Valjean forgives him as he does. She’s almost tempted to tell him exactly how much her father likes him to drive home that he has long forgiven Javert, but holds her tongue. As much as it physically pains her to do so. As she said, she is not her father’s keeper.

“Do you think he’d like this one?” Cosette asks, holding up a brick red shirt.

“Probably,” Javert says, something relieved in his voice at putting their previous conversation behind them. “Like I said, he’ll wear almost anything.”

Valjean comes back soon enough and reports that the shirt fit to Javert, who looks smug about it. Javert pulls out a plastic grocery bag out of his pocket and puts every shirt they picked out in it.

“We have more shit to get,” Javert says when Cosette asks why he brought a bag. “It doesn’t make sense to carry around everything individually when we have like thirty articles of clothing to pick out before Jean pays for it.”

“What’s next?” Valjean asks.

“Dress shirts,” Javert says. “At least two of them, and neither one can be white. I’d prefer one to be olive or pine, but we’ll see what they have.”

“Do you like him in green?” Cosette asks, trying to gauge Javert’s interest in her father. By their earlier conversation, she knows Javert deeply values their friendship; why else would he be trying to convince her that he isn’t good enough for Valjean? But she wants to know if his interest is... more.

“It’s what he looks good in,” Javert responds irritably. “Although he looks good in most things. It’s annoying.”

Cosette laughs.

Cosette picks out a rich purple dress shirt that Javert squints at for a long moment before accepting and Javert selects out the green one he wants so much. Then Javert chooses a purple waistcoat that is just a shade darker than lavender he insists Valjean should have, and Cosette agrees that it would look nice with the dress shirt she picked out. After a moment, he also grabs a light brown waistcoat in the same style that would go with the green dress shirt. All of them go into Javert’s bag, which he gave to Valjean to hold after Valjean said he felt rather useless with Cosette and Javert doing all the work.

“Probably don’t need two,” Javert grumbles to himself, “but purple and green? Absolutely not.”

They let Valjean choose his own jeans, although Javert insists on a grey pair in addition to the classic blue and a pair of khaki trousers. Cosette chooses one pair of black dress slacks and Javert some less nice brown and warm grey trousers.

“You’re buying shorts,” Javert tells Valjean.

“But—”

“You garden,” Javert says, talking over him. “In the summer. When it’s hot. You’re already not going to wear short sleeves and I refuse to have you getting heat stroke or some shit when it’s entirely avoidable.”

Valjean wilts under Javert’s glare and suddenly Cosette can see how they get along so well. She can admit that her father is not the best caretaker of himself. Javert seems to know this as well and has taken it upon himself to bully Valjean into replacing his worn-out clothes and getting him out of the house and any number of small things her father hasn’t told her about. Javert is good for him.

“Thank you for taking care of him,” Cosette tells Javert quietly when her father is in the dressing room trying on the shorts Javert insisted on.

“What?” Javert asks, confused.

“You’re good for him,” she says. “You make him get out of the house for more than just grocery shopping. You got him to go to therapy and I can see he’s getting better. He made beef bourguignon for you.”

“The fancy stew?” Javert asks. “That was good.”

“He doesn’t make it for just anyone,” Cosette says.

Javert frowns. “What does that mean?”

“I feel silly in these.” Valjean walks out in the jean shorts he chose, cutting their conversation off. Cosette laughs at his awkwardness, having never seen her father in shorts before.

“You look fine,” Javert says after a moment.

Cosette looks over at him and nearly does a double take. Javert is looking at her father like he can’t take his eyes away.

“Really?” Valjean asks hesitantly.

“I don’t like repeating myself, Jean,” Javert says, visibly forcing a scowl on his face when it’s clear to Cosette that all he wants to do is continue staring at her father’s bare legs.

She can admit that her father does have nice legs if one is into muscle, which apparently Javert is. How interesting.

Valjean smiles at the unvoiced reassurance. “Then they’re okay?”

“If they feel right,” Javert says.

“Give us a spin, Papa!” Cosette says cheerfully, curious about Javert’s reaction.

Valjean flushes, but turns around as she asks. From the corner of her eye, Cosette sees Javert blatantly check out her father when Valjean is turned the other way. Fascinating.

“Can I change back now?” Valjean asks when he’s facing them again.

“Yes, yes,” Cosette says, shooing him back. “We still have more to buy!”

Valjean sighs but turns around and walks back to the dressing room to put his normal jeans back on.

“So,” Cosette says to Javert with a knowing smile. “Papa?”

Javert grimaces. “I knew you would see through me eventually.” He sighs. “I don’t deserve him.”

“But you like him?”

“Of course I do,” Javert mutters, looking away but with a decidedly red face. “Who fucking wouldn’t?”

Cosette says nothing, only waiting patiently with a raised eyebrow.

“Those damn idiotic blind dates you set up after we stopped pretending to date each other that I kept interrupting- do you realize how frustrated they made me?” Javert says, breaking the silence. “None of them respected his space and it pissed me off, but at least they got to hold his hand!”

“He would hold hands with you if you asked,” Cosette says.

Javert scowls. “Through a panic attack, maybe, but like hell he’d want it to be like that.”

Oh God, Cosette thinks. They’re both idiots.

“Have you asked him?” Cosette asks, determined to make at least one of them see sense.

Javert looks down, hiding his face in the high collar of his coat. “Of course not,” he mutters. “I’ve already fucked him up enough. I refuse to take advantage of his kindness. If he says yes to me just to avoid being awkward, I’d probably try to throw myself off a bridge again.”

“Again?” Cosette asks, alarmed.

Javert frowns. “Oh, he didn’t tell you that? Jean had to talk me off a bridge after the protests two years ago.”

Cosette doesn’t know what she’s supposed to say to an admission like that.

She’s saved by her father returning from the dressing room, shorts in hand.

“I don’t know if I’ll ever wear those outside of the house,” Valjean admits. “I felt so… exposed.”

Javert snorts. “Summers are only going to get hotter. Climate change and shit.”

Valjean sighs, but seems to give in. “Well? What now?”

“Sweaters,” Cosette answers, having memorized Javert’s list. “If we can find them this time of year.”

“I have sweaters,” Valjean says.

“Only because you wouldn’t let me toss them,” Javert grumbles, but leads the way across the store anyway.

After sweaters, which they do have, Javert picks out a cinnamon-colored dinner jacket.

“I thought we weren’t going to nice places,” Valjean objects.

“Yeah, but you should have something nice anyway,” Javert says. “Just in case.”

Cosette heard about the whole gallery incident and thinks her father would object to anywhere else considered ‘nice’, but her father is also in love with Javert so maybe he would go wherever Javert asked him to.

“And you’re getting a coat like mine, too,” Javert adds.

“Why?”

Javert scowls. “Because they’re good in the wind and they’re fucking useful.”

Javert gives her Papa the choice of a duster in several approved colors and Valjean chooses the chocolate brown one, which is further approved by Cosette.

“His hair used to match this, you know,” Javert tells her, holding up the coat. “Back in Montreuil sur Mer. Tried to arrest him after…” He grimaces. “After seeing your mother… pass away in the hospital.”

Valjean puts a hand on Javert’s arm. “Her death wasn’t your fault.”

Cosette thinks she hears Javert mutter, “yes it fucking was,” but she can’t be entirely sure. She’s curious why he thinks he managed to kill her mother when her Papa always said she died of tuberculosis, but holds her tongue.

“Anyway,” Javert says. “Tried to arrest Jean, but he escaped the holding cell in Montreuil. There was a bit of a car chase— I can’t believe you stole that car when I was trying to arrest you— and then he fucking jumped out of the moving car and off a bridge. Most irritating chase of my life.”

“Yes, but it worked,” Valjean says, not sounding the least bit sorry.

Javert rolls his eyes. “Actually arrested him again after he had gone to see you as a kid. Prison only held him for like six months after successfully bringing him in, and then I guess he went and got you and forged some paperwork to adopt you, but the next time I saw him his hair was white. Which was several years after that, I believe.”

“I don’t remember Papa’s hair being anything but white,” Cosette says, fascinated by this criminal that Javert chased that sounds nothing like her father.

“It did go white pretty fast,” Valjean says, self-consciously brushing a hand through his hair. “It was a fairly stressful year.”

“Fairly stressful, he says,” Javert grumbles. “See what I had to put up with?”

Cosette laughs. Papa never told her that Javert is funny.

“What’s next?” Papa asks.

“Well, I figured you should get a proper parka, but they don’t sell them this time of year,” Javert says, suitably distracted. “You should get a duffle coat too, but they don’t carry them here.”

“A what?”

Javert huffs. “It’s a warm hooded coat that originated from the British navy. They’re nice.”

“Do you have one?” Valjean asks.

“No, I like this coat,” Javert says, indicating his long grey coat. “I don’t have much closet space because my apartment is tiny as shit, so I just wear sweaters under this. It works.” He looks around. “I said I wasn’t going to do shoes before, but after seeing your old ones literally falling apart at the seams, I have to insist on doing shoes.”

“I got new ones!” Valjean objects, pointing at his brand-new sneakers.

Cossette sighs. “Papa, those are the kind you always get.”

“I like them!” he defends. “What wrong with getting the same kind I always do?”

“Because they’re cheap as shit, Jean,” Javert says irritably. “Keep them for your gardening, but Christ, those don’t look like they even have arch support. Nicer shoes will last longer and feel better on your feet.”

As usual when Javert makes his argument known, Valjean only sighs and gives up. Cosette would laugh at him if he wasn’t so frustrating.

They go to the shoe section and Javert harasses her father about what size he wears until Valjean gives into that too, then tells them to stay put while he stalks off to go find the shoes he wants Valjean to buy.

“Is he always like this?” Cosette asks.

“Yes,” Valjean answers. “He’s been remarkably patient this time.”

Cosette wouldn’t call Javert patient, but her father is stubborn and although Javert seems equally if not more stubborn, it has been almost two and a half hours of shopping. Even she is getting tired.

“Why does he think he killed my mother?” Cosette asks.

Valjean sighs. “Fantine was already dying, even by the time Javert arrested her. She kept asking to see you, you know. It was what kept her going. When Javert came to arrest me at Fantine’s bedside, he killed that hope and her heart gave out. It was only a matter of time before Fantine passed, but Javert lays her death at his feet because he feels he dealt the final blow.” He smiles mournfully. “He refuses to think otherwise, no matter how much I’ve tried to convince him. Maybe you can try to change his mind.”

They sit for several minutes in silence as Cosette turns that knowledge over in her head. She doesn’t blame Javert for her mother’s death because her father is right. Her mother was already sick, already dying. No matter what he did, Fantine still would have died. Cosette loves her mother, but it is somewhat of an abstract thing as she doesn’t have any memories of her. She has a picture that her Papa found and she treasures it, but she gave up hope of seeing Fantine long before Valjean adopted her. Cosette had only been two or three when her mother placed her in the care of the Thénardiers, and her “care” under their roof was so bad that Cosette hardly remembers anything from before the age of seven. Éponine does, though, and has since confessed the regrets of her childhood. Not that Cosette blames her, as her parents truly were abysmal when Éponine started growing up, but Éponine still holds guilt over how she treated Cosette. They are friends now, but Éponine still sometimes looks at her and Cosette can see the old pain in her eyes.

Javert’s voice startles her from her thoughts.

“Goloshes, because I refuse to let you garden in the rain in cold weather without protecting your feet you fucking idiot, you are going to give yourself a cold and then who the fuck am I supposed to have lunch with.” Javert comes around the corner, muttering all the while. “Dress shoes, because it’s nice to have a pair just in case a funeral comes up or fucking whatever. Oxfords, so you have something nice to wear in the city, and you can order some kind of shoe insert if you don’t like the feel of them. And sandals, because it’s hot as shit in the summer and you should have at least one thing you don’t have to lace up to wear around the house and in the garden.”

He puts down all four boxes at Valjean’s feet.

“You’ll be trying them on,” Javert announces. Or maybe threatens, by the look of her father’s slumped shoulders.

Yes, Cosette finally sees why her father is in love with the man who chased him for more than a decade.

“You didn’t kill my mother,” Cosette says abruptly.

Javert blinks at her, suddenly looking like a deer in the headlights.

“You didn’t,” Cosette insists. “Even if you didn’t try to arrest her when you did, she still would have died. She was sick, Javert. The tuberculosis killed her, not you.”

“I—”

“Javert,” Cosette says, taking his hands. “You didn’t kill her, but I forgive you anyway because you seem to be looking for it.”

Javert pulls his hands back as if he’s flinching, but Cosette holds firm.

“Javert,” she says seriously, then realizes she doesn’t know his last name. “What’s your last name?”

“Javert,” Javert answers, as if automatically.

She turns to look at her father, wordlessly questioning why the hell he’s calling his crush by his last name. He shrugs.

“He prefers it,” Valjean says. “His first name is Emile.”

“Seriously?” Cosette asks, wondering why her father doesn’t just call Emile by his first name if he knows it.

“What?” Javert says defensively. “I didn’t choose it.”

“Emile,” she says firmly.

Javert looks like he’s about to say something, but she glares at him and he stays silent.

“I forgive you, Emile,” Cosette says. “You didn’t kill my mother. Her illness did.”

“But—”

“Emile Javert,” Cosette interrupts. “You will forgive yourself!”

“Cosette—”

“Say it!”

“Christ, you’re just like your father,” Javert mutters.

“You did not kill Fantine,” Cosette tells him. “Repeat it.”

Javert’s mouth is set in a stubborn line. She only grips his hands harder until he relents.

“Fine! I didn’t kill Fantine!” Javert says at last. “Fuck, you have a strong grip.”

“There,” Cosette says, releasing him. “Now you have been forgiven.”

Javert shakes his hands out with a scowl on his face. “You’ve raised a hellion,” he tells Valjean.

Her father only smiles. “So I’ve been told.”

Javert narrows his eyes at him. “Try on the damn shoes, Jean.”

“What’s after the shoes, Emile?” Cosette asks.

Javert turns his scowl on her now. “Stop calling me that. It’s weird. Nobody calls me Emile. Just call me Javert; it’s the only name I respond to.” He huffs. “And nothing, except maybe socks. But he can do that on his own time. Maybe in the fall we can go buy him some winter coats and whatever but they’re just not selling that shit this time of year.”

Cosette smiles. “I’d like that.”

Maybe by then her father will have gotten the hint that Javert would very much like to go out with him. Or Javert will have gotten over himself and his guilt and asked Valjean out.

…Or maybe not. But she can hope.