Title: Paris On Four Hooves
Work ID: 42294144
Author: Waistcoat35
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert & Gymont, Javert/Jean Valjean (background)
Additional Tags: Javert and Gymont being pals, During Canon, Post-Canon, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Paris - Freeform, Post-Seine, Javert Lives, Fluff
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
'We shall all have to be judged according to our works, whether they be towards man or towards beast.'
Black Beauty - Anna Sewell

Work text:

In the early hours, just past daybreak, Gymont stands patiently in his stall and listens, ears pricked, for a familiar set of footsteps. They always come at the same time, always the same rhythm, the same greeting. Sure enough, like clockwork, there's the neat clack of boots on the cobblestones. He gives a soft whinny, a greeting of his own, as the Inspector rounds the corner. He does not smile very often, but he smiles in the mornings when he rounds that corner and sees Gymont.

Javert lets himself into the stall, bids him good morning in a low, mellow voice. As is customary he offers a fresh carrot from the greengrocer, which Gymont takes with gusto. His water trough is topped up, and he takes a drink from it as his tack is put on for the day.

He enjoys their morning rides around the town. The chaos of midday has not yet begun, the night's rain puddling and shining pink between the cobbles as a few people begin to open up their shops. The mayor is crossing the street and bids them both hello - his master's voice seems a little higher in pitch when he responds likewise. Gymont wonders why, but he is told to walk on, and so walk on he does.

At one point in the day, a man who has been wanted by the station for questioning slinks out of an alleyway. Gymont remembers him, knows his scent and his gait and his uncomfortable expressions, and his ears swivel towards the man before even his head does. A second after he notices, his master does as well, and the man takes off running. Gymont is pleased about this, in a strange way, because even though it may frustrate his master, it means Gymont gets to run. 

As soon as he's given the order to, he does. He surges forward, ears pinned back as they give chase. House after house rushes by, passers-by scrambling out of the way if they had dared to be in it at all, and the pounding of his hooves against solid propels him forward. He and Javert are a team, united in their love of the chase. (The pat on the nose he gets for a job-well-done once the man is caught certainly doesn't hurt, either.) 

Something shifts in the air, over time, and Javert does not greet the mayor in the morning anymore. Gymont finds that he misses hearing his master pleased. He thinks it begins after the mayor helps the woman in the street who smells of sickness, although Gymont does not understand why it upsets his master so. Things worsen not long after that, when Javert comes back from the place of the sickness scowling and briskly gets the tack ready. 

What follows is a swift ride towards Paris, and then many hours of waiting near the city walls, checking carriages. The other horses smell of sweat and stress and overexertion, and Gymont is thankful to be standing still a while even if the restless energy in his bones - picked up from his master - makes him want to run again.

He gets his chance before long. The mayor flees one of the carriages with a girl in tow, and Gymont's shoes spark against the flagstones as they give chase. Javert urges him on, on, on, and so on he goes regardless of his exertion, carries them closer and closer until the mayor disappears over the wall. Javert snarls his frustration, and Gymont pitches in with a similar cry. 

When Javert returns from checking the city walls his shoulders are still a straight line, movements restrained as though he's trying to prevent himself from flying into a temper. Still, though, he pats Gymont's nose and tells him he did well. It doesn't feel as though he has. 

They live in Paris now, and he does not like it half so well as their little town, but it cannot be helped. He hopes, at least, that it will take Javert's mind away from the mayor slipping through his grasp. He imagines that his master feels just as Gymont does when he hasn't run fast enough, and Javert always reassures him through that, even if he doesn't know he's doing it.

The carrots don't taste as fresh here, but he makes do, just as Javert is clearly making do with his living quarters - he arrives at the station smelling of damp wallpaper every morning. Gymont does not turn his nose up, because it would be impolite, but it is a close thing. 

Years pass. Javert rises through the ranks, and begins to smell less like the damp wallpaper, which is a relief in many ways. However, Paris is more crowded than the towns and villages, and their chases through the streets are a little more infrequent - the station do not wish to deploy mounted officers to chase street urchins. He still comes in every morning and brings a carrot, though, even if he doesn't need to get Gymont's tack ready. If it is quiet, he might take his tea out to the stable and speak softly to Gymont as he does. 

Until the streets seem to get noisier, the people more disrupted, and the barricades are put up. 

The commotion has set Gymont on edge - surely he will be needed now, when there is chaos in the streets. And, yet, he finds he isn't summoned. Javert comes to the stables briefly, wearing different clothes that smell strange and unfamiliar, and strokes his nose, and tells him that the noise should be over soon enough. He gives him a lump of sugar, this time, and refills his water. He does not take any tea. And then he leaves.

 

Javert does not come back for a long time. 

It is not in the nature of a horse to keep a tally of days and nights - not that they can't, but moreso it is unnatural to them - and yet Gymont does. To him it seems to be many weeks of waiting, and he worries, for if his master had been killed he would know, he would feel it in the air, he would smell it on the breeze. Somebody would come and tell him, for they know how close the inspector is with his horse. 

Sometimes, a couple of officers stand in the yard and watch him, talking in low voices they think he cannot hear or understand. They say the inspector has gone missing - that he vanished without a trace after the barricade had fallen, and hasn't been since again since, nor has he been counted among the dead found there. If he has not been found dead then Gymont knows he is not.

Still, though, he waits. He drinks from his trough, and he eats his feed - considerably lacking in carrots - and he stands listlessly. He resists the urge to whinny, to call out and hope to be heard, because he is already pitied and does not wish to be more so. This goes on for some time.

One day, there are boots on the cobbles. The gait is wrong - one foot will fall, and there will be a hesitancy of sorts, a falter, before the other comes down. But his ears must be deceiving him, because he has a strange feeling that his waiting is done. 

Javert comes around the corner, limping a little - he does not smell of injury nor of sickness, so the wound is old by now. He smiles when he sees Gymont, smiles more widely than he has in a long time, and Gymont cries out. Javert leans on the gate a little, once he gets close enough, and reaches a hand up to rub Gymont's nose. He looks tired, but then, Gymont feels tired. Javert smells different - along with the coat being new, he almost smells a little like the mayor.

'I'm terribly sorry,' Javert murmurs, 'but I haven't any carrots for you. I've been on extended leave, you might say. I apologise for the wait, but I wasn't as quick on my feet for a while.' 

He says it as though Gymont would ever mind at all. 