Title: Where'd You Hide the Body
Work ID: 42726609
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Western, Angst, Dubious Consent Due To Identity Issues, Montreuil-sur-Mer era, inspired by a song
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Western AU inspired by the song “Where’d You Hide The Body” by James McMurtry (a few phrases taken directly from lyrics, see endnote for proper credit).

Work text:

Javert met Madeleine’s eyes across the small, unadorned wooden table, over the eggs and sausages that the mayor had prepared in the sheriff’s simple kitchen.  Some days - most days - Javert told himself that this had to stop.  But here he was again, being served breakfast by a man clearly his superior.  He doubted it would be the last time, either.  For Christ’s sake, he had allowed Madeleine to leave a jar of his famous sourdough starter in his kitchen (and not for nothing - he could smell the biscuits cooking).  Madeleine tended the starter himself on his visits.  For all the honor of his position, Madeleine liked to do things for himself, and always seemed to be fidgeting with something.   Javert wished he knew whether this humility was an act.  There was a lot he wished he knew about Madeleine.  There was something about the man that he just could not place.  

Madeleine’s eyes dropped.  Despite their intimacy by night, he seemed barely able to handle Javert’s gaze in the daylight. Not for the first time, Javert wondered what that was about.  

Madeleine was a soft-spoken man who made an outsized impression.  He rode a fine horse, and Javert had once heard the story of how the mayor had gradually earned the trust of the wounded, half-starved Spanish mustang.  The townsfolk said that no one else could ride him.  Javert supposed that the mayor must have won him over in much the same manner.  Javert preferred not to think of it, but Madeleine had slowly, over the course of months, worked his way through Javert’s suspicious nature, until they reached the point where he had become a key fixture in Javert’s life.  He took Javert’s reports and gave him orders by day, and, more and more often, whispered desires in his ear at night.  

His ever-merciful nature grated on Javert occasionally.  He wanted none of it for himself - he would not be one of the mutts and strays that gathered around the kind mayor.  Whatever he was to Madeleine, Javert was proud - he would not be that.

As Madeleine served the biscuits from the Dutch oven, he spoke of the work that was being done on the town’s new school.  Javert half-listened, drumming his fingers against the table.  It was always like this - when Madeleine spoke in the mornings, it was never about what they did, and always with a shyness about him that hadn’t been apparent the night before.  Perhaps this was a relief - there were some things Javert felt were better not discussed.  

But with an instinct that he had come to trust, Javert felt strongly that there was something weighing on Madeleine’s mind that he was not telling him.  Javert felt a twinge of jealousy - an emotion that he had never before known himself to be susceptible to, not until meeting Madeleine.  Not for the first time, he wondered if there could be someone else.  Madeleine did not spend every night with him, after all.  Was there someone else, with whom Madeleine shared not only a bed, but all the secrets or truths which he withheld from Javert?  

The thought infuriated him.  He watched Madeleine pick at his breakfast.  There was that nagging sense of wrongness again - a man built like Madeleine should have a heartier appetite.  

Javert stewed for a moment longer, and when he thought he could not bear it anymore, he spoke plainly.  

“Madeleine, you are as nervous as a cat.”  

Madeleine started slightly.  “Please, call me Jack.”

Javert crossed his arms, and moved a bit closer, without replying.

“All right, I’ll admit that I’ve been a bit on edge lately.  There is so much going on in the town.  They are behind on building the new school, as I was saying, and they are thinking of bringing the railroad all the way out to Spring City; did you know that, Javert?  And the widow Chesterton - ”  Madeleine continued to speak, but Javert cared very little for the widow Chesterton. 

 What’s it say about me, that he thinks I’d fall for that?  Javert thought bitterly.  He stamped a foot, swore under his breath, and squared himself up.

“Enough.  Please do not insult my intelligence further.”

“Javert -” he snapped, trailed off, then rallied again, turning on his lover.  “I do not insult your intelligence, but I question your compassion.  How is it that you care so little about what is going on around you when a crime is not being committed?”

Madeleine had never used that tone on Javert before.  

“I’m sorry, I don’t know what’s gotten into me today,” Madeleine continued when Javert didn’t reply.  

“Don’t you?” he asked coldly.

“I suppose it’s the demands of the mayor’s office - you know that it’s an honor which I never sought.  And maintaining the mine…”  Madeleine looked intently at the wall as if Javert were not there.  

“You and I are not gambling men,” Javert said, leaning forward and taking hold of Madeleine’s chin and directing his gaze towards him.  It could have been the tenderest gesture Javert had shown him by daylight, but for the tension in his touch, and Madeleine shivered. “I could wish that you would lay your cards on the table, however.”

“It’s nothing about us, Javert,” he said, unresisting.  “I wish you wouldn’t …”

“Wouldn’t what?”

“Wouldn’t look at me like that.”

“Like what?”

“Like I’m one of your criminals!”

Javert’s jaw dropped.  He…the mayor…  

 One of your criminals.  The idea should be laughable, but somehow it wasn’t.  

Madeleine had always seemed vaguely familiar to Javert, but lately he had chalked that up to his own suspicious temperament.  Now, he stared and stared.  Javert had been a prison guard in his youth, and yes, now that his mind was going down that path, there was no going back. There had been a man there, far rougher, coarser in body and soul than Madeleine.  But the build - those shoulders, that chest, those arms. 

Javert recalled himself.  “I see.”  

There was nothing left to say - nothing that Javert could think of to add.  For his part, Madeleine remained silent; tense.  They remained for a moment in this tableau, but they did not have long.  They never did.  Javert’s quarters adjoined with the sheriff’s office, and deputies would be arriving soon.  

Javert watched his every movement as Madeleine said his goodbyes and made his way out the door.  The mayor walked away towards his home and office.  His fine dun stallion was not waiting for him in the paddock with the horses belonging to Javert and his deputies.  He never left his horse outside Javert’s lodgings at night, in order to be as discreet as possible.  

 Yes, thought Javert as he watched him walk away,  you have thrown me off your trail quite well.  Who would suspect a criminal on the run would bed a sheriff?  It all began to make a kind of twisted sense.  Javert’s mother had used to tell him to keep his friends close and his enemies closer.  He had tuned her out, but perhaps Madeleine kept him close as a way of controlling him.  A man like the mayor would never otherwise take interest in a man like himself.  Yes, the man’s seeming passion was a smoking pistol giving him away.  

Of course, he couldn’t arrest the town’s beloved mayor.  Javert had a long trail ahead of him.  He would do the work, find the evidence he needed.  Javert checked his pistols, and put them in his holster, heading out for the day.  Anger consumed him like fire.