Title: Winter Wolf
Work ID: 43028232
Author: Xythia
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, OC/OC
Additional Tags: Montreul-Sur-Mer period, Alternate Universe - Sentinels and Guides Are Known, Drama & Romance, Unreliable Narrator, Everyone Has Issues, Fix-It, Rough Trade, not historically accurate
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 8/21

Summary:
All Sentinel Javert -former Toulon prison guard, now the Police Chief of a sleepy town - had ever wanted was to keep society safe; to protect them from the lawless predators that threatened safety and order. It should be easy for someone like him to divide the sheep from the wolves, shouldn’t it?

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Notes: I am freely mixing brick with musical and movie timelines. No production seems to bother to keep it consistent, so why should I? 



Direct quotes from official sources will be marked bold and cursive, I do not own them. Or anything else beyond the idea of this story and I don’t make any money with it.








Chapter 1: Ara



 




“A score of times he had been tempted to fling himself upon Jean Valjean, to seize him and devour him, that is to say, to arrest him.”





Javert, about Valjean; “Les Misérables”, Victor Hugo, Book Four, Chapter One




 




Montreuil-sur-Mer, 7th October 1822




Javert couldn’t help but stare. Stare at the tilting cart, the old man trapped underneath, and the mayor who had, against all advice and common sense, removed his fine coat and top hat - handed them to a gaping urchin, trusting them to not run off - and then crawled under the hulking mess to try and prevent it from crushing its hapless owner. Not caring about the mud soaking his trousers and boots, about the undignified way he had to crawl on all fours and the spectacle he provided for the gaping bystanders - his focus was on helping Fauchelevent.



By acting as a human jack; all the while keeping eye contact with Javert after getting into position.



Madeleine was insane! This was a pointless sacrifice. There was no way for him to accomplish anything but join the unfortunate Fauchelevent in death. The road was too narrow, the badly cobbled pavement too muddy and steep to allow him to gain good traction and allow more than one person to try and steady the cart. Not that anyone else was insane enough to try!



Typically Javert would refrain from going against the wishes of a superior, an elected official no less, but he would snatch the insane man by the arm and pull him out from under the vehicle by force! One death less on this unfortunate day would be a success and to lose Madeleine - any second now Javert would shake off this strange lethargy and-



There were numerous traits and quirks to complain about, Javert was not being unreasonable, no matter what the mayor said. Madeleine was the bane of his existence. Whenever Javert had to be in his presence he felt discomfited. Be it the weekly report about police matters, or other encounters where he was forced to stay at the man's side; only because Madeleine had the survival instincts the Eternal gave a gnat and it was Javert’s duty to protect him! The inspector had more than once encountered his mayor strolling through the least reputable parts of the town, alone, after dusk no less! What was that man thinking? But, considering the scene in front of his eyes that was just par for the course, wasn’t it?



Strain and desperation flushed Madeleine’s face, a peculiar smile playing on his lips, and Javert saw his pupils contract, beads of sweat pouring out of his pores and beginning to plaster Madeleine’s hair to his skull.



“Monsieur le Maire!” Javert pleaded, but it only earned him a resigned head shake.



Madeleine closed his eyes and Javert watched, incredulity and something he didn’t want to name making his own heart stutter, as those broad, muscular shoulders bunched and strained and then-



The cart trembled and shuddered like a rebellious horse.



And rose incrementally, then a little bit more. Not a lot, but enough to free the trapped merchant. Shouts rang loudly and eager hands pulled old Fauchelevent out. Madeleine wretched himself away under his own steam, his chest heaving from exertion. The cart crashed down with force.



“Blessed be! Oh, it is a miracle!” someone exclaimed.



As soon as the danger to life and limb had passed the bystanders lost all reason and swarmed the damaged cart and its owner. To congratulate him and his rescuer, no doubt. Brainless, hapless fools, all of them. Javert huffed and forced himself to look away from Madeleine.



Some people were more foolish than others. “Renard! Fingers out of that crate!” Javert ordered sharply. 



“Just wanna help.”



A bald-faced lie, and not only the ever-suspicious Inspector Javert was disbelieving. “And I am the Dauphin, bow to me!” old Huisier chortled, and grinned a toothless smile. 



Renard held out his empty hands and after a sour glance in Javert’s direction shuffled away into the shadows. Not far enough for the inspector’s taste though, only out of his direct line of sight like the rat he was. 



“Sergeant Liné, keep an eye on him,” Javert murmured under his breath, and saw the immediate nod of acknowledgement from his fellow Sentinel officer on the other side of the crowd.



An ominous creak made everyone stop their fussing and hesitantly look up at the remnants of the cart. It was nothing more than a pile of planks, flattened under its heavy load with the drawbar sticking out like a cenotaph of irresponsible transportation. 



And irresponsible it had been! The crates, baskets and other lumpy cargo were wrapped in heavy canvas, and had been piled on top of each other, haphazardly secured by rope. The result was nearly twice as high as was sensible - or allowed by regulation. Such foolishness had nearly cost them two lives today. Now that the damaged cart was tilting more and more, the rope was fighting a losing battle against gravity.



“Oh no!” Fauchelevent bleated and tried to stumble to his feet, despite his injured leg. “My merchandise! It will break! Spoil! I am ruined!”



“Darnasse, Thierry, Dupont! Cut those ropes, begin at the top and unload carefully. Stack everything against Madame Fabier’s house, there is enough space over there to not clog the street. Take care, one injured man is enough. Everyone else, stay back!” It was satisfying to see gendarmes and bystanders jump to his orders. The unhappy glare Javert sported no doubt helped to suppress any opposition.



Avoiding work in favor of crowding Fauchelevent and the mayor was more attractive than carefully untangling this special Gordian knot, and not many joined the gendarmes in their efforts.



With a careful sniff and a tilt of his head, the inspector was reassured that certain elements weren't helping themselves to unsupervised cargo. He was by no means able to discern every inhabitant of this not-so-fair city by scent alone but he had learned fast to keep track of certain individuals. 



Next, he should deal with the crowd. The Caveé Saint Firmin was, despite being only wide enough to let two horse carts pass each other with a lot of caution, the main road that connected the Lower City with the Upper City and was the shortest route directly to the city gate facing the harbor. Having it clogged with debris and looky-loos would only create more work for the police.



Javert turned and strode over to where the crowd was most dense and nearly obscuring the tragic hero of the hour. His tall frame allowed him to tower over nearly everyone. Only Broujon the butcher could boast that he rivaled the chef de police when it came to height and he was, quite sensibly and unlike this rabble, seeing to his business and selling his wares. Elsewhere!



“Disperse, there is nothing more to see here! Monsieur Fauchelevent! Where is your horse?” he demanded to know and the crowd parted like the sea before Moses.



“Sadie? Ran off, the old nag. Old girl spooked and caused the crash,” Fauchelevent moaned pitifully and blinked up at Javert with rheumy eyes. The two younger men holding him up, by their clothes dock workers, dared to glare up at the inspector for bothering the injured merchant.



“Or, which is more likely, you were driving too fast, like always.”



Fauchelevent whimpered and closed his eyes, smart enough not to try and convince a Sentinel of something nobody here would believe even without being able to tell lies by listening to heartbeat and respiration. Instead, he was playing to the crowd’s sympathy and succeeding. A thin smile curled Javert’s lips. Smart, but not smart enough.



“Have a heart, Inspector, don’t you see how bad a state he is in?” a woman inevitably dared to plead.



“It is his own fault and we can be lucky that he only injured himself and not a bystander or damaged another vehicle beyond repair! Madame, your Jules likes to play in the backyard of your house.” Javert nodded to the building, it was the next over on the right side of the road. “And he never thinks to look out when he runs out of the door.” The inspector had scolded him more than once, despairing about the survival instincts of the young. There was no need to elaborate. The glares turned from the police inspector to the whimpering man.



“Be happy that I will consider your injury punishment or I would fine you for overloading your cart. Again.” 



“I am ruined, ruined!”



That was most likely true, everyone knew that Fauchelevent was scraping by and a cart was expensive to buy or repair. But it was not Javert’s problem, unless Fauchelevent turned to crime to fatten his purse. Which brought him to the other leading character of this little drama. 



“Make yourself useful and carry M. Fauchelevent to the hospital!” Javert ordered firmly. “Sergeant Liné, where is Monsieur Madeleine?” Because the mayor seemed to have extricated himself from the adoring crowd and slunk away without Javert noticing, which was a mean feat in itself. 



“Gone home, he said,” chuckled Liné, and pushed a curious urchin back to safety and out of the way. “Exhausted and wet, he was. Can’t blame the man for wanting to get clean. Fussy bloke, our Monsieur le Maire, you know him. Doesn’t like crowds. And Madame Blanchet was trying to kiss his cheek, oh dear!”



Madame Blanchet, a matron of advanced years, giggled like a little girl. “He is such a handsome courteous bear, our Monsieur le Maire.” 



Javert sent her a deeply disapproving stare. That was no way to talk about a high-ranking official! He might not approve of most of Madeleine’s shenanigans, but to talk disrespectfully in front of others, no, that simply wasn’t done.



Two workers came running down the street, slipping in the mud with nearly every step in their haste, between them they carried a heavy-duty jackscrew. A real jack, hah! Not a living person filling the role-



Javert stiffened. His senses and memories must be playing tricks on him again. It couldn’t be! Yes, he had always felt as if he knew Madeleine from somewhere but- he had to see if his suspicions were correct, right now!



A convict successfully masquerading as a respected official? Fooling everyone, and especially Javert? And that specific convict to boot? Javert had to fling out his free hand, the other clutching his cudgel, to steady himself against the brick wall because his world was tilting on its axis. Oh yes, even among the lawless beasts a certain one had stood out, with his glowering stares, his utter and disgusting disrespect for authority and order.



In Javert’s youth, he had been able to cling to the notion that people were either naturally good and law-abiding or liars and criminals. But his awakened senses had denied him that simple black and white view. Nearly everyone lied. Pauper, worker, merchant, lord: it did not matter. Everyone had their breaking point and the only moral quality Javert could discern was how easy or hard it was for someone to act against the best interests of society and break the law. Still, it made his occupation even more important, because he had to watch everyone and assess them in the present. And as well, keep a constant watch on his own beast and the bonds that bound it securely to the yoke.



Instead of falling into a rage, like he would've done as a guard, and proclaiming to everyone who was in hearing range about this revelation, Javert would do something he rarely had to strive for: to keep politics in mind and investigate before jumping to action.



“Nobody accompanied him home?”



Hesitantly shaking heads answered him.



Sergeant Liné dared to pat his superior officer on the shoulder and the way he smiled made Javert suspicious. What was there to smile about? “You’ll make sure that he arrives safely, won’t you, Sir? He'll listen to you more than anyone else. I will make sure this mess here is tidied up.”



“Indeed. I expect a report when I return to the station house.” Javert shot him another inquiring glance, because to imply that the mayor would follow the inspector’s advice was preposterous. When had that ever happened? Madeleine did whatever came to his mind. But their discussion would be lengthy, so Javert then hurried away, his thoughts and senses already seeking out his target.



Madeleine’s ‘residence’ wasn’t worth that appellation when taken in the context of what was proper for a mayor’s residence. ‘House’ nearly didn’t fit either, and ‘hut’ was only not applicable because despite leaning to one side and being situated in the poorer part of the town, instead of in the more affluent residential district around the Place de Roy, it had two stories and was built out of sturdy brick instead of wood and clay like the buildings surrounding it. Most of those were in the process of being rebuilt or upgraded; the area and the people living here were thriving due to Madeleine’s profitable glassware business.



Instead of being greeted by a housekeeper or manservant, Javert encountered only an empty tiled hallway behind an unlocked front door. Had the fox, sensing the hunter on his tail, already fled the coop? After running through the streets it was hard to concentrate on anything specific but the heartbeat he sensed on the upper floor was a familiar one and while it wasn’t at rest it was not beating frantically. Javert had time to compose himself.



And time to look around, because while he had made sure to know the layout of every prominent house in the city, Javert hadn’t entered this one before. His daily evening reports were delivered either at the Mairie or more often than not to the office in the manufactory where Madeleine preferred to spend his time.



The town gossips had always wagged their tongues about the peculiar M. Madeleine, his mysterious past, and his refusal to use his wealth for ostentatious purposes. Wild tales of hidden grottoes and a sleeping chamber filled with exotic luxuries had only been dispersed when Madeleine had offered two of the most prominent and influential widows a visit to his house, to avoid any enterprising youth (or a few older persons of more shady inclination) trying to sneak in and explore. The matrons, by all reports, would have preferred the mayor to have given them a more detailed - and personal one-on-one - exploration instead of being set loose together inside, with Madeleine hurrying off to his manufactory. 



The man hadn’t been too concerned about his belongings going missing, probably secure in the knowledge that the two widows, as long-term bosom friends and being quite wealthy on their own, would keep each other from too much mischief, and the fact that there weren’t any small valuables that could be removed easily. 



The half-open doors in the hallway allowed Javert to peek into the rooms behind. A modest sitting room, a kitchen, and an unused office were revealed to Javert’s curious gaze. The furniture, while well cared for and clean, was old-fashioned and sturdy, maybe something a self-respecting official would buy for their servants but never for their personal use.



Javert huffed. His instincts had always marked Madeleine as someone to keep an eye on. Quite frankly, he was too good to be true, too bland, too even-tempered,

 too nice.

 It would have been less suspicious if the man, after practically being forced to accept the role of mayor, would have matched his lifestyle to his new station. But no.



The wooden staircase was polished to a shine and didn’t creek one bit when he carefully climbed it. Of course, it helped that Javert kept himself pressed to the wall, was light on his feet, and took care to only put pressure against the areas where the planks had been nailed to the frame. If his hasty arrival hadn’t alerted his prey, he wouldn’t spook him with noise now.



One of the two doors upstairs was half open and his ears told him that his quarry was behind, even if he wasn’t moving a lot. Javert opened the door fully, ready to spring aside in case he was going to be ambushed. But nothing happened. 



Madeleine was standing in the middle of the room in his shirtsleeves and trousers and no shoes; his bedroom by the way it was furnished, and plain like the rest of the house. A pair of boots was discarded in a sad little pile of scrap leather, mud and sleet. Those wouldn’t be able to be cleaned and restored to their old splendor, Javert could tell from experience.



“Has there been another incident, Monsieur l’Inspecteur? Otherwise, I do not appreciate the intrusion.” The rebuke was mild but firm and it made Javert smile.



It wasn’t a nice smile.



The mayor turned half away from his chef de police and casually tugged down the cuffs of his linen shirt, rebuttoning them. His fingers appeared too clumsy for a motion they must have performed a thousand times. Afterward he closed the fastenings of his shirt, which was liberally splattered with mud and was clinging to his body with sweat and rain. Its clean replacement lay abandoned over a wooden chair.



The growl of a wolf on the hunt swelled up in Javert’s throat. Propriety dictated that displaying any naked skin just wasn’t done in the company of someone that wasn’t a tailor, a doctor or a spouse - outside exceptional circumstances. Risking life and limb by nearly being crushed by a cart should count as exceptional, shouldn’t it? They were acquaintances, not strangers. Javert was a lowly police agent, not someone who would faint if the man changed into a dry shirt in front of his eyes.



“Did you injure your shoulder? It was pressed against some splintered and uneven wood. If you don’t want to call for the doctor-”



“He should be quite busy with Fauchelevent, there is no need.” Madeleine waved his concern away but could not disguise the way he stiffened with the motion.



“Then let me take a look. I assure you, I am quite familiar with assessing injuries caused by strain.”



“Indeed? Are you also accomplished in treating such injuries? Otherwise, I will wait for the doctor to be available or visit the hospital if it doesn’t improve on its own. In any case, it isn’t an urgent matter.” Madeleine wasn’t indulging in his habitual slouch and rough clothes, and the ruined shirt did nothing to disguise his frame. The wet fabric clung to his muscles quite nicely. 



Javert took quiet pride in his physique in the way he took pride in the neatness of his uniform and the cleanliness of his person. They were tools of his trade. But this man, half a head shorter than himself, had him beat when it came to obvious strength. He couldn’t help but let his eyes wander consideringly over the other man’s body.



Pure assessment, of course, there was no need for the slight blush on the shorter man’s cheeks.



“No, I am not trained as a medic, as you are undoubtedly aware, nothing beyond first aid. A prison guard has to know when a convict is faking an injury in hopes of slacking off or when he is too injured to keep working. I never made a secret of my former profession.” Unlike you, Javert didn’t add.



“Why would you? It is a dangerous profession but an honest one. The Préfet de Police has sent me some of the glowing recommendations your service has earned you.” Another frustrated tug tried to force the cuffs a little lower down Madeleine’s wrists but the face showed nothing but polite attention.



“Oh yes, it is an honest profession and one that demands a good memory for people. What was it you said, my face is not one you would forget when I asked you if we had met? Well-”



“And it isn’t,” Madeleine interrupted him.



Javert bristled. “I am aware that my appearance is unusual but-”



“It’s more your height, your habitual glaring, and your rather formidable whiskers that make you stand out.” Another disruption. “I did not want to imply anything else.”



A deep, calming breath was needed here. How this man alone always managed to rile him up, he couldn’t understand. “No, you wanted to distract me, just like you are trying now. It will not work, you gave yourself away today, as you feared it would. Otherwise, why stare back at me like that? I know of only one man who can accomplish what you did today, one man I’ve seen manage similar feats of strength. Only one. Do you deny that you are prisoner 24601?”



“That is neither my name nor my identity,” was stated with firm conviction and it rang true.



“But neither is Madeleine.” Javert reached for his manacles.



That wasn’t something Madeleine could deny. “So you came to arrest me.” The upright posture slumped a little bit. “And here I hoped that we were working on our professional relationship and you would stop disagreeing with me on principle soon, give me the benefit of the doubt and a chance to explain if it came to this.” The false mayor licked his lips nervously and the smell of sweat increased in the room, going from honest exhaustion mixed with sandalwood soap and starch, to bone-deep desperation.



It was not a pleasant odor and it tugged at the Sentinel’s instincts in a way an arrest normally would not. And that was the second elephant in the room that was driving Javert crazy. Because the other man was correct, they had been circling each other for a very specific reason. This man might be a convict but he was also a Guide. How this could be, Javert could only speculate.



“Is that why you tried to gain my approval? To reach an accord because we both feel the need to soothe our untethered gifts, to tie me with a bond, with sentiment?” he demanded to know. “Foolish! We might be compatible as Sentinel and Guide, probably my regrettable background providing the common ground,” Javert sneered and enjoyed how the Guide winced and shook his head in denial, “but sentiment has never prevented me from doing my duty, 24601.”



“I know that better than anyone else in this town, don’t I?” More than a hint of bitterness crept into the con’s voice. The lines around his mouth deepened. “If you have to address me, at least use my name. If you remember it?” he dared the policeman.



“Jean Valjean. You practically threw those two words in my face often enough and neither my hearing nor my memory is faulty. And do you deny that that is your name? Ridiculous as it is but more fitting than Madeleine, even if that name proclaims you a repenting sinner. Or was that the name of a whore who tried to pander her wares in exchange for freedom?”



Javert casually moved in front of the window and grinned meanly. It wasn’t a big window, hardly wide enough to accommodate a slender woman, never mind a brawny convict, but that had never kept a desperate man from trying, if he thought the only other exit was better guarded. Well, Valjean couldn’t know that Javert had been stupid enough to come without backup and hadn’t positioned a group of ready gendarmes in the foyer. 



With every second the bland facade of Madeleine was slipping a little bit more. His gaze was more direct, his chin raised and stubborn. “Curious, I haven’t heard that name spoken in decades and did not think I would ever hear you say it.”



As if that was some kind of victory Valjean had wrestled from the inspector! And he was prattling on.



“Back to the matter at hand. If you are trying to rile me or catch me in a lie you have to try harder. Your gifts call to mine, true, but you are honest to a fault, and getting closer to you would have revealed me sooner than later. And the last thing I want is to be sent back to hell.”



“Then you shouldn’t have broken parole!”



“Nobody trusts a convict, you know that!” Valjean shouted back and dug his fingers in his wild curls in frustration. His shirtcuffs slipped back and revealed scarred skin.



“For good reason! Trust you, hah, Monsieur 

Madeleine

.”



Valjean was growing more frantic by the second. “I did not break my parole on purpose! If you would let me explain-”



“More lies, surely!” Maybe he should have taken half a dozen gendarmes with him. Valjean had never injured a guard on purpose but it had been foolish to come alone. And what was he doing, squabbling with a convict? Maybe it was the man’s Guide nature that was making Javert so reckless? An unbonded Guide was unable to project emotions, though, so that could not be the reason. Another thought fought to the surface. 



“A Guide would never be sent to Toulon, it would be torture to an awakened Guide.” Why hadn’t he remembered this before? It was one of the reasons why he hadn’t made the connection before today, why his distrust and speculations had shied away from making the connection. Damn this man for making Javert forget procedure and common sense. “They would not sentence a pré Guide to hard labor either.”



“What do you mean, they would not? They did, I wear the marks as evidence.” Valjean exclaimed, absentmindedly trying and failing to smooth down his unruly hair.



“It is policy to have a Guide check every convict for the signs. Evidently, someone did not do their job properly.”



“Evidently.” Valjean echoed numbly, shaking where he stood. Something like hope surfaced. “And that changes this situation, how?”



Javert grimaced. Leave it to Jean Valjean to transform something that should be simple, like arresting a parole breaker, into an immensely complicated conundrum. Javert hated messes like nothing else. Arresting a dangerous criminal, even if he - Javert eyed the trembling man unhappily - didn’t look the part at the moment, was what the rule book demanded. But putting a Guide into public jail with the scum of the earth - no. It could only lead to damage, to Valjean and everyone else. Guides and prison did not mix, and didn’t that explain a lot of things he had always found frustrating about 24601? This quagmire was clearly above the paygrade of a simple country inspector.



“You are, in your sworn duty as the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, constantly using a false name and committing fraud by signing it to official documents-”



“I mostly let my deputy do the signing if that helps? I cannot avoid it totally, it would raise too many questions but- He was duly sworn in under the former mayor, thus it is all legally sound. I only use the name for projects I fund with my own money, like the new hospital wing.” Valjean piped up, a hesitant smile trying to battle the worry on his face.



“You frustrate me! No, that does not help!” grumbled Javert, and glared harder. “Did you just admit to using your private resources for official projects circumventing due process? Granted, the other way around is more common when it comes to corruption but that hardly makes it more legal!”



“Oh.”



“Yes, oh! You are really bad at following the rules.” 



“That isn’t something new,” Valjean sighed self-consciously.



“A trend you should try to break!” And how deep had Javert sunk? Was he really bantering about legal matters with a convict?



What to do? Maybe his instincts had steered him correctly, despite Javert’s earlier self-recriminations. Inviting the mundane gendarmes to this mess would have only made it worse. The only one who might be of assistance was Liné, who barely registered as a Sentinel and was much less gifted than Javert, despite being bonded. He was by choice not involved in the business of the Societé des Gardiens and would not be able to advise Javert beyond offering his ear and secrecy.



But his sponsor, M. Chabouillet, the Secretaire of the Préfet de Police, had the status and the education to make sense of this mess without it developing into a huge scandal. The position he held at the prefecture was a minor one, by choice, he had told Javert when asked. More mundane responsibility would interfere with his position as the Alpha Prime of Paris and Northern France. Yes, Chabouillet was the one who would be able to sort this out, Javert thought with relief.



“You are clueless about Guide and Sentinel matters, as evidenced by your ignorance about the law concerning our kind. Which means you are not registered.”



Valjean nodded. “It would have been impossible to lie about my identity, and they do not hand out information without an assessment. Not that I knew that there had been anything irregular about my sentence, I’ve never heard anything about that! I would have been more interested in information about managing my equilibrium.”



The general public would not react favorably to what they would see as ‘special treatment’ of Guides within the legal system, so of course it was kept under wraps. But there was a system in place nonetheless, every courthouse was supposed to have a Guide on duty to keep watch. “You do not need to try to gain my sympathy, I am only doing my duty to untangle this mess of your design!”



“Which I appreciate. Let me add to the imbroglio. From my perspective, if you arrest me publicly without giving me time to order my affairs, everything I have built here will collapse. The hyenas will try to tear my assets apart to gain the juiciest bits for themselves and my workers will either be let go directly or suffer in limbo until the jaws of the law have finished chewing me up, and spitting the rest out. And if I understand you correctly, me being a Guide will complicate the process because of a possible miscarriage of justice?”



Javert huffed, despite himself amused at the other man’s audacity. “And now the mangy dog shows that he still has teeth. I wouldn’t call it a miscarriage of justice, more a misplacement of justice.” He pondered for a moment and wrinkled his forehead in deep thought. “The Societè des Gardiens is not removed from the common law, it is a side arm, and if you think it would have treated you more kindly - that is not necessarily true. They are highly influential and incredibly invested in retaining our reputation. You are aware that the Reign of Terror has decimated our numbers, and damaged our kind’s standing in society?”



“That is common knowledge. Sentinels and Guides are the guardians of our society. But in a civil war, Frenchmen turning against Frenchmen, there are no clear lines. It demonstrated to the public that there is no inherent knowledge in us about who is right or wrong and who is to be defended as innocent. Prides turned against prides. People remember that we can turn against them, and aren’t an unshakeable bastion of security.” The last part was a direct quote, underscored by a fluid hand gesture.



Valjean had displayed more knowledge than Javert would have thought him capable of without the proper instructions and histories at his disposal. Javert decided to elaborate, as it was important for the con to understand the importance of discretion. “Each side had a few prominent Gardien defenders but many Alphas demanded that their prides be allowed to stay neutral. Démarque and D'Agneau, for example. Sentinels are one-man armies, though, and nobody wanted unknown agents to be left to interfere at key moments in the conflict. The fear was prevalent that those would be triggered by an event and that they would subsequently join the revolutionaries or the royalists, and turn the tides in one or the other faction’s favor. 



“There was a Parisien Sentinel who stayed neutral - until the revolutionaries threatened the children of the Queen when the royal family tried to flee Paris in coaches, then he and his Guide nearly tore apart the mob preventing the royal children’s escape. Robespierre the Butcher made a sport of hunting down as many neutral Guides and Sentinels as he could in secret and he waged a misinformation campaign, maligning especially Guides as sinful abominations. ‘Sodomites who spurn the laws of the common man’ was one of the phrases he coined.”



Valjean appeared to be appalled if fascinated by the tale. “Even the Church has no problems with Guides and purely Theban* pairings.”



Javert shrugged his shoulders. “Sentinels were seen as too dangerous to confront directly and they went the indirect route by taking out the other half of a pairing. Nevertheless, Robespierre has damaged our social standing, murdered us where he could, and others followed his example because they saw the danger we present, and our numbers have never recovered. The Societé is concerned about maintaining the status quo and eradicating even hints that Gardiens can be threats to the average innocent citizen.”



“So, they will most likely make me disappear?” Valjean, distressingly, seemed to have switched from agitation to being nearly resigned, as if the small bit of hope he had had was about to be squashed before it could be kindled into flame.



“That is unlikely. Guides especially are still a rare commodity.” And it wasn’t as if Valjean’s current alter ego identity would not serve as exactly the sort of image the Societé would be happy to promote. There was a reason a man with an obvious working-class background had been pressured into taking the role of mayor of this town without the bourgeoisie revolting, and even the king had shown favor to Madeleine the industrialist: He was rich, civic-minded and ridiculously and, at least to Javert, foolishly always giving alms and trying to better this city. Without the hidden convict part, of course, he was a paragon of Guide ideals.



“I don’t think that being seen as a commodity would be to my taste either,” Valjean contemplated and shifted in place. They were still facing each other in the middle of this modest bedroom and it was getting ridiculous. None of them seemed to be able to act the way they wanted and they were caught in an impotent limbo.



Javert wanted to break and tear at this status quo and could not. “I will inform my superiors with a detailed report; it is beyond my jurisdiction. This is what I know as fact: you are a convicted criminal living under a false name, and a Guide. I cannot put you in jail but I can issue house arrest until a directive for further action arrives. Do not try one of your old tricks and escape, I will find you even faster than in the past. I am fully awakened and not pré anymore like before.”



“If you say so.” Valjean shivered, whether due to exhaustion or the cold Javert could not discern.



“I know so! And change into something warm and dry as soon as I turn my back, for God’s sake.”



Valjean laughed, by the look on his face the sound was as much of a surprise for him as it was for the annoyed inspector. “You sound as if you care!”



“You are causing me a lot of work and you keeling over from illness will not make it easier. I will keep an eye and an ear on you all the time, so don’t do something even more stupid.” Javert turned around to leave the room. “I have your permission to use your office and some paper and a pen to write my missive?” It was only polite to ask.



“Of course, the blotter and stationery are in the lower right drawer.”



“Why did you break parole? This is such a waste.” He was talking to himself more than the convict, the day taking its toll but the answer still hit him like a punch in the gut.



“Does it matter now? As a convict you do not want me and as the mayor, I could not have you for fear of revealing the former.”



What a mess.


 


*alluding to the Sacred Band of Thebes, an elite band of ancient soldiers, 150 pairs who were lovers.



 



TBC


 

 

I thought to restrain myself and not add my ramblings about whatever came to my mind while writing the chapter - and failed. As evidenced by this note. When I wrote this fic I regularly got distracted by the research I was trying to cram into my head while keeping up with the RT challenge. Despite no hope (or chance) to make this historically accurate - how can it be with a crossover like this? Sentinels and Guides, if they have been part of History in the open for a length of time, must have had an influence on how things are seen and handled. Besides such contemplations, I was fascinated by pictures and old maps. Hugo drew heavily from things he witnessed himself and the places he visited. It was a pain to try and find a map (or names for streets and places) of MsM (or, how it is actually called, Montreuil pas de Calais, to my astonishment) - and I fear that I fudged a lot of the landmarks. Let's mark it down as poetic license, please. The road where the accident happens in the book, by the way, exists and there are pictures that show how it looks nowadays.

Big 'Thank you!' to my beta Smaller for their help.

 

Standing out in the cold all night keeping eyes sharp and ears trained on the most aggravating convict he had ever met - and he had met thousands in the course of his career - had not improved Javert’s mood. Before they parted the previous day Valjean had had the audacity to offer the guest room, and, when the Inspector had looked at him scandalized by the idea, the armchair in the sitting room as an alternative option which had been firmly rejected as well.

Maybe the intention behind these offers had been to throw him off his game, or to make it seem like Valjean had accepted his lot and thus did not mind close supervision. The man’s placid facial expression had not given anything away.

Javert would not let himself be soothed by comfort, and lulled into a false sense of complacency. The cold and humid night air had kept him wide awake at least. As had the anger at the complicated situation Javert found himself in, and the desire to figure out what to do now.

The housekeeper had arrived early in the morning and left again soon after. When Javert had stopped her on her way and inquired, suspicious about what Valjean might have told the woman, she had told him quite primly that it was none of his business, which added to his ire.

“Good morning Inspector. You resemble a thundercloud more than usual,” Valjean greeted him from the kitchen table where he was breaking his fast. “Come nearer to the fire to warm up. You should have taken me up on my offer to stay indoors.”

“I will not accept hospitality under a convict’s roof, it is not proper!” Javert nevertheless held out his hands to the fire merrily burning in the hearth. Purely out of practicality, as they had gone slightly stiff with cold.

“Even you cannot stay awake for days on end, and you are not impervious to the weather. And, please forgive me for pointing out, you cannot go without sustenance either. Here, have some bread and cheese. Or some of the jam, if you prefer. Nothing is poisoned either, if you are wondering.”

Valjean had a point about the need for rest, damn him; Javert would have to ask Sergeant Liné to take turns guarding the false mayor. How long this détente would last depended on how fast they would get a reply to his letter from Paris. If the courier he had dispatched yesterday did not run into difficulties on the road he would arrive at the Prefecture later this day, and the response - accompanied by guards or on paper only - could be expected as early as two days after. It all depended on how fast Chabouillet decided on a course of action, and whom he had to involve and consult to come to a conclusion. 

“I will eat later.” When he returned to his flat for rest. “Your housekeeper did not spend a lot of time here.”

“No, she didn’t, because I sent her away. I will not need her services for a few days since-”

“Maybe not ever again,” commented Javert and it elicited a tiny pause but Valjean continued as if he hadn’t heard anything, “-the pantry is stocked, and I did not think that you would want her underfoot.”

“And she accepted this without questions?” Housekeepers were, in Javert’s experience, often overly interested in their employers’ lives, and while Madame Bonnard was not known to run her mouth about her work, she was said to be invested in the running of this household, and proud to hold this position.

Valjean slowly chewed and swallowed, then put his slice of bread down. Not much was missing. “I implied that a politically delicate and potentially dangerous situation has come to my attention, and I do not want her to be caught in the crosshairs.”

That wasn’t even an outright lie. One of Javert's thick eyebrows rose in reluctant approval.

“She agreed to visit her sister in Amiens for a few weeks. There’s a new baby, and Madame Bonnard hasn’t seen her niece yet, and her sister can use the help. Paid leave, of course.”

“ You  had enough money on hand to pay her in advance?” Javert silently called himself an idiot. Leaving a convict - who was known for his tendency of not following orders and trying to flee the consequences of his actions - with enough funds to bribe his way to safety was a mistake he would lambaste a green recruit for. 

He had been, to his shame, too caught up in the situation to change the way he addressed this man when confronting him until now. A convict did not deserve to be afforded a polite ‘Vous’ but a mayor certainly did. Today Valjean had donned the disguise of a respectable man again. He was coiffed and dressed in a handsome beige vest and an impeccably knotted cravat as if he would have to meet the city council or an important visitor from another city.

Javert, in contrast, felt downright scummy in yesterday’s clothes and muddy boots. At least Valjean did not look like he had gotten more rest than the inspector. Deep dark circles under his eyes that resembled bruises were decorating his face, and he was paler than normal. It made freckles on his cheekbone and nose Javert had never noticed before stand out.

Valjean could not suppress the flinch when Javert used ‘tu’ but he soldiered on. “There was enough at hand for her wages and travel expenses.”

“You will give me the rest of your available money, I will confiscate it for the duration of this ‘politically delicate and potentially dangerous situation’.”

“Is that an order?” Valjean smiled his infuriating mild Madeleine smile and took another tiny bite of his black bread. He should be easily able to afford a better quality than that, maybe then he would not have to treat every bite as if it was sawdust.

It was important to establish proper order. Valjean should get used to the new dynamics - or should Javert say ‘old’ dynamics? - of guard and detainee. Such a stupid question did not deserve more than an unimpressed glare. On second thought, maybe some  clarification was needed to get through Valjean’s thick skull.

“To my shame, I must admit that I allowed confusion and personal history to influence my actions yesterday, but I can assure you that from now on I will act to the letter of the law. Which dictates proper distance between suspect and police officer and yes, searching the premises for contraband and confiscating all available funds,” Javert lectured stiffly.

“Inspector-!”

“Do not provoke me with insolence, you will address me correctly.” The nerve!

Valjean rolled his eyes. “Monsieur l’Inspecteur, respectfully, your coat is on fire.”

And indeed, it was! Javert yelped and pulled his coattails to the front and hastily began to pat and try to smother the smoking fabric. How could he have missed that?

“It is only smoldering and not outright burning due to the rain-soaked cloth but I thought you ought to know without delay before it developed into worse.” A pitcher of water was shoved into the softly cursing policeman’s reach and it was promptly used to quench the last sparks.

“I hope you did not hurt your hands?”

Javert wanted to snarl but did not, it would be showing weakness. “Are you mocking me? Save your false concern for someone who cares. The gloves took the brunt.” It was not the first of his greatcoats to suffer this fate. In fact, considering the carefully mended patches decorating the fabric just a little bit to the right of the newly burned spots, it wasn’t a new experience for this one either.

“You seem to think every word out of my mouth to be a lie, but do you actually think I am made of such a low moral fiber that I would not be upset about you being injured?” The man had the audacity to sound hurt.

The tone of voice made Javert look up from assessing the damage to his coat and study the worn face of his opponent instead. “Does it matter? Sentiment will not alter the realities of your situation. No matter what you think of me or how well or how badly I regard you in turn, it will not influence my duty. You are under arrest, which includes restricting your access to all resources.”

From how Valjean tilted his head it was clear to Javert that he would not meekly give up whatever plan he was trying to implement.

“I should be happy that dealing with a criminal Guide seems to warrant more comfort than I would have as a mundane, hm? Otherwise, I would already be in irons. Very well, I will give you all the readily available money I have in the house, against an official affidavit with the exact amount.”

Javert bristled. “That is the correct procedure. The need for discretion and my ability to keep track of you are what is keeping you free of chains, for now. A concession that can change, if your behavior warrants it, keep that in mind.” He would not tell the con that causing a Guide such distress was making Javert’s own skin crawl. He would do it, if it was needed, but no matter how nonchalant the Guide pretended to be, Valjean could not fully disguise his emotional reaction to the thought of the chains.

He did not think that Valjean was aware that he had started to breathe in a certain rhythm, one that experienced prisoners used to stay calm when facing punishment and trying to stay conscious. Even with most of his body covered, the slight sheen and smell of cold sweat were wafting off Valjean’s pale cheeks. The linen over the older man’s throat rose and fell with his nervous swallows.

“Am I allowed to contact a lawyer?”

That was a sensible question, for a change. “Breaking your parole cancels your conditional freedom and returns you to a prisoner status; which would normally mean no appeal, no new court date but an immediate return to prison, as you were informed when you received your yellow ticket of leave.”

“Normally,” Valjean parroted, and tensed even more, his knuckles white and the lines around his mouth deepening into groves.

Javert absentmindedly patted the still-smoking coattails. The stink of wet and singed wool was adding to the overall misery. “Quite. I should have been more clear yesterday.”

“You were vague, compared to your usual bluntness, yes. No prison for now until we get an official answer but you gave me no clue as to what might happen afterward. To me. To my workers and to my holdings. Only that the Societé will most likely do everything to avoid a scandal.”

Javert began to pace and organize his chaotic thoughts, his coat flaring out behind him restricted only by the hands he clasped together in the small of his back. 

His pacing forced Valjean to turn in his seat to keep the policeman in his sight. 

The half-eaten meal lay forgotten on the table. Instead of showing some patience, Valjean felt the need to fill the silence with his words. “Normal procedure for breaking parole, and since I was deemed dangerous, would mean either an execution, if I am lucky, or a life sentence if I am not.”

Berating Valjean for bringing this on himself - again - would not improve anything, even if Javert dearly wanted to. “You would prefer the guillotine or to be hung?”

“Yes.”

There was no ambiguity about that to be heard. Javert faced Valjean and made sure that the other man was looking at him fully before he slowly began to speak. “There is no question about your guilt, neither about your original crime nor about breaking parole.”

A nod. “I never denied either.”

“The severity of the sentence is what is questionable and why the Societé will likely allow a retrial, I remember reading about other cases similar to your original crime. For the sake of keeping this discussion from escalating, I will choose to ignore the fourteen years you fool managed to add to your time.” With utterly foolish, pointless, self-destructive- now it was Javert who needed to compose himself.

A faint chuckle broke free of Valjean and interrupted Javert’s inner monologue.

“If there is something amusing to be found about this, I do not see it! What form that new sentencing will take, whether a full fledged investigation followed by a trial, or a simple handing down of a tribunal decision after an inquiry, that is what we are waiting for. If there is a retrial, hiring a competent lawyer with the appropriate Societé licenses will be in your favor; I doubt the one you use for your business will have the necessary credentials. Your conduct, your discretion, and my recommendation will influence any decision they make.” He hesitated when adding the last point, “My word does not count for much though, do not think otherwise.”

“You never made much of a secret about your disapproval of my person. A lack of influence on your part should therefore work in my favor.” Valjean shrugged his broad shoulders and the corners of his mouth were still twitching upwards, no matter how much Javert glared his disapproval.

“I despair of your inability to heed the law, and I worry what your impulsiveness will lead you to do when not dampened by supervision. We only have to regard your current situation! Identity fraud compounded by inhabiting a position your parole, even if you hadn’t broken it, would disqualify you from taking. You always seem to think that you know best! That is the way anarchy lies!” Javert took a deep, calming breath. “But back to the likely outcome. No Gardien would be sentenced to death unless they are an extreme danger to the tribe, and by that, I mean their gifts causing havoc among the population and no chance for them to regain control - not mundane fraud. Do you understand?” 

“Well, don’t you think anarchy might be an exaggeration? That whole Madeleine business did not start out with any intention to cause trouble.” 

“You never intended to become a bagnard either. Nobody does. Or, more accurately, nobody intends to get caught. Intentions, bah!”

“All I intended was to save the life of a little boy. And everybody treated me like I tried to murder someone instead. One loaf of bread and you and your upstanding brethren,” the last was said with a sneer, “felt justified treating me like scum.”

“Behave like scum, be treated like scum!”

Valjean looked sideways. “The only way to escape that vicious circle was Madeleine.”

“It is not a good justification; Breaking the law. It never could be! Everything, every concession reached, every lengthy debate we had, every school or other fool project based on a lie; it was time and effort wasted.”

“Hm.” Valjean tilted his head. “Interesting. I did not think you would consider most of my projects worthwhile, you had enough words against them.”

“What I objected to,” Javert pressed out between clenched teeth, “was the false foundation they were built on. I knew that you weren’t who you pretended to be. And you don’t seem to be able to stop, is falsehood ingrained in your bones? And still, you keep up the pretense of Madeleine! You will cease your stubbornness - whatever you are trying to do. You will follow my orders, you will not cause me any more problems! Do you understand me!”

Javert’s voice had risen with every word until he found himself towering over Valjean, shouting into his face. 

“Yes, Sir,” came in a distinct cadence and volume. There was a faraway expression in Valjean’s eyes and while it was nice to hear agreement - it was clearly lip service at best.

Javert hissed and closed his eyes. That reaction was like a bucket of ice-water drenching his ire. It was surprisingly upsetting and illuminating at the same time. Not only about Valejan’s state of mind either.

Later; he would examine it later and deal with Valjean now. Keep him contained, collect more evidence to send to Paris. Javert silently counted and the numbers nearly reached three digits before the stalemate was broken. 

“Sir? Are you in distress? Is something wrong with your Gardien gifts? I wondered why you did not detect the fire yourself but maybe there is something wrong-” 

He knew without the need to look that Valjean had stood up and was hovering near him, but outside striking distance. He was radiating what had to be another bout of false concern and nervousness. 

“Sit down again. And I prefer Inspector if you please.”

“But-”

“There is no problem with my senses, do not fret. I seldomly use them and keep them under tight control. Why is it that we cannot have a conversation without multiple distractions?”

“Maybe because we are complicated people.”

“I do not like complicated.”

“Then life will keep upsetting you.” At least that comment was muttered very quietly but Javert still felt the need to glare at Valjean before taking another deep, cleansing breath. The smell of Guide, jam, fresh bread, and fragrant cheese tickled his nose and calmed him down. 

“I cannot predict the outcome beyond the lack of a death sentence, is what I tried to tell you; before you derailed the conversation! It is not my place or my duty to decide the fate of criminals, I am the one who catches them and collects evidence and facts for the people who are qualified to do so. As I said yesterday, strong Guides are a rare commodity and they will not deprive our tribe of one if they can help it. Take that as you will and try to be patient.”

Valjean had gone back to poking at his meal instead of eating it. For someone who had started his criminal career over a starving child and a loaf of bread he was not treating it with the respect it deserved.

“Strong? I do not feel strong. Not beyond the physical.”

“You survived Toulon and you are not dormant.” Those words were a truth he could freely offer. “You awakened after your release?”

“I do not remember a time when I wasn’t able to feel people’s emotions when they touched me.” With steady hands Valjean picked up his cup and took a sip of his coffee. It had to have gone cold but the man showed no indication that he cared or even tasted the difference. “Mind you, I do not recall a lot about my life before Toulon. Most of it is… gone. Just impressions are left, but I remember my nephew. His hunger.”

Valjean shook himself like a wet dog and then reached for a new slice of bread even though he hadn’t finished the first. Javert watched silently as the man carefully spread a little bit of butter and then a nice even layer of jam on it, before putting it on a clean napkin and then on the table nearest to where Javert was waiting.

“I cannot abide people being hungry. Please eat, this is not a bribe.”

The grumbling of his traitorous stomach, which of course took the opportunity to announce itself just then, could not be denied, and the slice had already been prepared and should not go to waste. “Very well.” A big bite and Javert sighed. The jam was the apple jam he liked. The exact sort he bought at the market, made of lightly sour winter apples and blended with a bit of grape, which he only used when he felt he had accomplished something and was content. A habit he developed after his Awakening, when his beloved snuff ceased to fulfill that role - the first time he had opened the box and took a pinch he found out why nearly no Sentinel indulged in that little vice. It had stung and burned for days.

Valjean, typically, took that small concession and decided to push his luck. “Why do you not take off your coat and hang it up to dry? It is not even fully light outside and catching a cold would interfere with your duties.”

If the next offer was for the guest room Javert would shake some sense into the infuriating man. That he did have a point about the coat - again - made it doubly galling. “Very well,” he repeated, “but only until it is dry. I have to maintain an objective distance if my reports are to be taken seriously. There are enough rumors going around about us having a torrid love affair. Your neighbor across the street, the one who owns the haberdashery on Rue de Jardin-”

“Francoise Lavigne. A very pious and diligent businessman.”

“Yes, thank you for the unneeded information, I know his name. But I disagree with the pious. He approached me earlier last night and offered me advice so I would be allowed back in your favor or - alternatively and out of compassion for a  fellow unfortunate  - he offered a pint of plum schnapps in commiseration.” And Javert had offered to arrest him for trying to get an officer drunk, drunk on alcohol of questionable origin no less.

“Ah,” Valjean said delicately. “I fear he is on the outs with his wife because he invested in importing spices instead of the laces she wanted.”

“He shouldn’t offer advice. On anything private. As long as she does not beat him with a kitchen implement of her choice I do not care for his woes. I also do not appreciate being the subject of salacious gossip.”

“It is impossible to outlaw gossip. It’s inherent to the human condition.”

“That does not mean I would not if I could.” Javert carefully tugged off his trusty greatcoat and spread it over a free chair so it would profit best from the heat of the hearth. The sooner he could go back outside, the better.

“Now, will you make this more difficult for us both or will you, for once, follow my orders and the law?”

Valjean’s answer was a shrug and another misplaced smile. At least he did not bother to try and lie. Javert grumbled and got ready for a few more hours of frustration.

 

TBC

Life has been crazy for me the last few weeks additionally to the usual Christmas stress. Big 'Thank You Smaller!'. Any remaining mistakes are my fault.

 


The smile somehow kept dancing at the edge of his awareness (and his dreams as well, damn the man), which meant that Javert wasn’t surprised when he resurfaced the next day after five hours of solid sleep in his small apartment to hear that Valjean wasn’t where he left him. Unsurprised and decidedly furious, Javert nevertheless politely thanked his youngest gendarme for giving him the neatly penned message that the miscreant had oh so thoughtfully left for him.



Visiting the defunct harbor district and inspecting the old warehouses seemed to be more important to the false mayor than following Javert’s orders. At least Valjean had had the foresight to include Sergeant Liné in that excursion, which meant it wasn’t a front for going on the run. A glare nearly burned away the line in the text that cheerfully pointed out this little detail.



Unless the wily convict wanted to seize the opportunity to give Liné, who was easier to fool and not as fast on his feet as the inspector, the slip. No matter what Valjean had written, convicts weren’t known for their adherence to the truth. Javert should have been more explicit in his warnings to his officer. Liné had made it clear to him when Javert had been transferred to the city that the sergeant did not want to be included in any Societé business unless it was an emergency.



Minor talents often preferred to live a mundane life instead of serving the tribe directly and that was to be respected. But telling him that the mayor needed to be carefully guarded should have been enough for Liné to take the order seriously. Gallivanting about the docks in the evening was the opposite of secure.



The evening crowd was treated to the spectacle of their Chef de Police running full tilt across the town.



If that was how Valjean repaid leniency, by the Eternal, he would have to live with chains and be restricted to one room and had better not complain about it! So much about any hope that this leopard was able to change his spots.



‘Montreuil-sur-Mer’ was somewhat of a misnomer. About two hundred years ago or about it, Javert was not someone interested in this town's far past, the city walls were flanked by the River Canche on one side and the sea on the other. But silt and sand had moved the ocean shoreline further out, and the somewhat unstable low ground below the timbers of the old harbor docks had been repurposed by the less fortunate citizens into hovels.



The city's fortunes had declined hand in hand with her sea harbor. What had once been a small but flourishing center of commerce had struggled to keep itself on the map, and a lot of the old guard bourgeoisie had relocated to greener pastures. Until Jean Madeleine had appeared seemingly out of nowhere and bought the old glassware factory, invented a new process for black glass, and then managed to sell the results far and wide.



But one manufacturer, no matter how successful his business, couldn’t employ everyone. And, Javert was always ready to point out, despite the mayor’s protestations and pleas to his fellow businessman to extend a hand, some people did not have what it took to be good workers. They preferred living hand to mouth - and oftentimes hand to other people’s pockets - instead of toiling honestly. And nearly all of them had found shelter in this dismal part of the town.



Before he was able to recapture the troubling bane of his life, another sort of trouble, and more pressing, found Javert. Shrill screams, one male, and one female, caught his attention and made him swerve from the direction he somehow knew Valjean to be in. 



He cleared the space between two ramshackle warehouses and arrived at the north side of the dock. Faces turned to him and the cacophony of angry voices quieted some. Javert took stock of the situation. A few women of the town were huddled together like bedraggled sparrows painted like exotic birds and they were eying him with distrust and loathing, as was appropriate. Whores and lowly keepers of the peace were both members of opposing ends of the lower classes by nature. They were both despised by many people but their services were never going to die out.



The main causes for this commotion were a lady of the night who crouched on the dirty pavement and a finely clothed gentleman hovering near her, both no longer screaming bloody murder at each other. A little bit further off in direction of the water a few drunken workers, most likely prospective customers of the flock, were enjoying the free entertainment. 
And from behind the workers there approached the shadow that called to his senses more strongly than Polaris.



Even in Toulon, among a sea of bearded faces, Javert had always been able to pinpoint a certain one. Some instinct, some pull in his chest that said: there you are. 
When Madeleine had elicited a similar if stronger reaction Javert had been secretly relieved that it wasn’t something exclusively related to prisoner 24601. Or so he had thought, the more fool he.



“What has happened here? Who can tell me the facts?” Javert demanded.



The gentleman straightened his askew pink top hat and smoothed his hands down his striped vest, not letting go of the ornate walking stick he was never seen without. 

“Javert, would you believe it, I was lost here in the dark!”




The inspector recognized the prominent member of society in turn and bowed, a frown creasing his forehead. It would be hard to mistake the aging bourgeois in his colorful clothes and his meticulously painted face for someone else.



“Monsieur Bamatabois.”




“This prostitute attacked me, you can see she left her mark!

” 
He pointed at his cheek where four furrows slowly filling with blood were smudging the gentleman’s face paint.



Javert sincerely doubted that Bamatabois wasn’t exactly where he had intended to be this evening. It was pretty difficult to mistake this quarter of the city for anything near the Upper Town. No matter Bamatabois’ original intentions, attacking him was nevertheless a serious offense. 



Nobody else spoke up. 



He turned to the woman and raised an eyebrow, then turned back to the gentleman. “The courts will decide her fate if you come to the station and give an official report.”



“Mercy.” She whimpered and rocked back and forth before crawling to him on hands and knees. The dirty bonnet slipped further back and revealed a shorn head. It wasn’t unusual for women like her to sell not only their bodies but their hair and teeth as well - this unfortunate had not much left to sell.



Dear Eternal, she was a sight. If she had propositioned Bamatabois he wouldn’t be surprised if the man had insulted her and spurned her offer. She stank of alcohol. Javert tried to keep his face from showing his disgust when she clawed at the front of his uniform.



“I have a daughter, please good Sir, if I go to jail-”



Javert tuned out the disparaging remarks Bamatabois was spewing and firmly took hold of the whore before she could try to kiss his hands. Or offer her services.



“

I have heard such protestations, every day for twenty years!”

 Indeed, he had, as a guard and as a policeman both. And a hundred times more in the years between infancy and when he had been allowed to earn his first few coins as a messenger boy for the prison guards. 



Often he wondered if this kind of woman even knew what truth tasted like on their lips and if it would poison them to try and be honest for once. This, he eyed the unhealthy flush on her face and the way her bones moved under paper-thin skin with disgust, was what became of people who had no restraint on their baser nature. This is what an overabundance of sentiment led to.



“Only what she deserves for attacking an honest citizen, I hope she rots,” declared Bamatabois, and wrinkled his nose at the whimpering whore. He oozed satisfaction.



Satisfaction and spite.



It kindled a spark of life in the meager body Javert had been keeping upright more than she was managing on her own steam. The only nice feature left to her were her blue eyes, the color of the midday sky, and they now sent fury and hate towards the posturing peacock.



“I said no, I will not lie with a rat! Hit me, you did, for the insult!” she hissed and struggled in Javert’s grip. It would not help at all for her to try and claw Bamatabois' eyes out again.



“How dare you, as if I would want you!” spluttered Bamatabois and rose to the tip of his fancy evening shoes in an effort to appear more impressive. 



And that had been a bald-faced lie just now. Both of Javert’s eyebrows rose in astonishment. The whore was too drunk and too ill to be read correctly. Bamatabois was neither. And obviously had bad taste.



And then, as if the Fates were laughing at Javert, Valjean decided that it was the perfect time to interfere. Javert had wondered how long he would be able to refrain.



“A word please, Monsieur l’Inspecteur.”



Javert glared. First at the false mayor and then at his colleague who was standing behind Madeleine’s shoulder like a faithful attendeé instead of a guard.



“

This woman needs a doctor, not a jail

.”



At least Valjean had enough sense left to formulate it as a soft statement and not an order.



“She attacked this man and injured him, that is a crime, as you well know,” Javert replied. The whore was still mumbling disconnectedly about her brat and money.



“That might be, but I heard those sailors say that he beat her up first when she denied him. With his walking stick. Her… sisters tried to pull her away from him but- well.” Valjean grimaced.



Bamatabois was huffing and puffing and sputtering denial, this time smart enough to remember that it was not advisable to outright lie to Inspector Javert. Which was a clue itself that there was truth in her side of the altercation. 



“She attacked me!”



“Certainly, monsieur, that is indisputable.” Javert pulled the whimpering woman nearer to one of the few functioning street lamps and turned her this way and that to catch the weak light. The cheap white paint had to have been applied days ago and obscured the face and the more than generous décolleté underneath, but that was no obstacle for his keen eyes. There were bruises, some old and healing badly, and some just taking form.



Valjean was hovering near, twitching in place, no doubt keen on flinging himself to the defense of another lost cause. As the mayor, he had been always ready to softly reprimand his Chef de Police for his lack of compassion.



“Will these bruises I see match your very distinct walking stick pommel when they fully form? They are too fresh now to be distinct,” Javert asked the bourgeois firmly.



Bamatabois swelled with indignation. “This is an outrage! Can an upstanding citizen not take an evening stroll? I defended myself and now you are taking the side of a whore! Your superior will hear of this!”



“His superior is standing right here and there is a difference between a stroll as a nice evening activity and beating someone who is half your size and a quarter of your weight.”



That made Bamatabois deflate a little bit but he wasn’t finished. “So it is true, Madeleine, you are holding the wolf's leash? How cute.”



Javert bristled.



“Take care how you speak about a respected Chef de Police. Someone who is known for not taking bribes or cutting corners.” More than a hint of a threat peeked out behind the polite coldness of Madeleine.



There had to be more to that exchange, some subtext Javert could only guess at because Bamatabois seemed to bite back on what else had been on his tongue.



But still, a convict speaking up for a police officer? It was a travesty and if there had been no need for discretion Javert would have voiced his displeasure in other words than those that he was carefully formulating now.  



“I do not need your defense, Monsieur le Maire. I am acting in accordance with the law. This woman will be detained because she showed herself a threat to others and herself, and you, Monsieur Bamatabois, will have to pay a fine for brawling in public. It would be best for everyone if you would cut your… stroll short and return home. Sergeant Liné will accompany you so you do not have to fear another attack,” Javert waited for a second before he continued, “or get lost for a second time.”



“This is not over!” 


Bamatabois would be hurt and insulted by the comparison but his appearance, maybe the height of fashion fifty years ago, with a chalked face and bright pink painted cheeks and an elaborate wig, looked like an expensive male version of the prostitutes' flamboyant costumes. 


With no new excitement the crowd slowly thinned. One woman made a few hesitant steps in the direction of the inspector and his moaning cargo but then retreated nearer to the workers. The night was still young and her purse was not full enough.



“Please let me take her to the hospital. It would be cruel to put her in jail,” pleaded Valjean.



“Now who is the one implying low moral fiber? I do not intend to torture this waif, but she is not some innocent damsel in distress.”



“But a jail cell-”



“-is a lot kinder than a night at the docks. It isn’t as if I plan to throw her in with violent offenders and leering drunkards.” Javert strode in the direction of the station house, his gait long and sure, secure in the knowledge that Valjean was too much caught up in his act as an angel of mercy to do anything but follow.



The figure in his arms did not slow him down at all. Her wide red skirts and the collection of scummy petticoats underneath weighed almost more than the woman herself. She had ceased to move much at all and was staring at nothing. Javert sniffed and then wrinkled his nose, his suspicions confirmed. That stench was unmistakable, even if it was disguised under cheap perfume and alcohol.



“You might think otherwise, but the best doctor in the country is unlikely to be able to help her. I know the signs.”



“Consumption?”



And evidently so did Valjean. 



“In the later stages, yes. Her lungs are already fighting a losing battle to draw air.”



Those words penetrated the haze of the whore’s exhaustion and she began to sob loudly and squirm enough to make Javert adjust his grip and try to pin her flailing arms.



“My Cosette, oh she will perish without me!”



“Strangling me will not help! Cease your wailing, woman!” Javert thundered, and nearly dropped her.



Valjean made himself helpful for a change and was trying to catch the flailing limbs without getting an elbow to the face for his efforts. How could someone so weak be so slippery?



It took both of them to subdue the wench without resorting to too much force. 



“I have seen her before,” huffed a winded Valjean, who transferred his grip on her twig-like wrists to one hand. Javert looked at him questioningly over her shorn scalp. She was still hissing and squirming.



“Seen me before? Oh, of course you’ve seen me, you bastard!”



For all his multitude of sins, promiscuous sexual activity was not among them. Prisoner 24601 had been sent more than once to solitary for beating a fellow prisoner bloody because they had propositioned him. He had been a loner and his marriages, what prisoners and wardens called chain partners, had always been contemptuous and platonic. That, and his current do-gooder persona, made it unlikely, Javert contemplated, that Valjean had encountered her in search of her ‘wares’. Maybe on his incessant and annoying alms-giving excursions?



“Mademoiselle?” questioned Valjean.



Bah, mademoiselle! This hellcat was no more a mademoiselle than Javert was a Lord. She proved it by spitting Valjean square in the face.


“You let your foreman send me away!” she howled before giving up the fight, as if that act and exclamation had burned all of her remaining vigor.


“Let’s add insulting a high official to your list of crimes.” Just because the wench did not know who Madeleine was truly, did not make her behavior more acceptable. For all she knew she had assaulted a mayor. Javert glared at the blood-flecked liquid slowly slipping down the mayor’s cheek.



“Do not stand there like a ninny and don’t use your hands to wipe it off. Take my handkerchief if you have lost your own,” Javert sharply ordered and turned his body as a shield so she had no direct sight for a repeat. At least Javert was obeyed to the letter this time, he observed, without his kerchief being needed. Javert would have preferred if Valjean had thrown away the soiled piece of cloth instead of returning it to a pocket though. There was no way even the most diligent washerwoman would be able to get it clean enough to be used again. 



“I will make sure nothing remains after you have washed your face. You must do so as soon as possible, she is likely contagious.”



“Poverty isn’t contagious,” scolded the soft-hearted idiot who was still showing concern and wringing his hands about this wretched woman’s condition, despite the insult.



Javert was going to strangle him and Valjean should thank the Eternal that the inspector at least had superior command over his impulses. “But sickness is! Just because you have the constitution of a warhorse does not mean that you are impervious!”



“It is very kind of you to worry so.”



“Have you lost your mind fully? I am not kind!”



Instead of arguing further Valjean only shook his head and looked pleased, of all things, before turning his attention back to the wretch. “I think I know where I have seen her face, she looks so different now, old before her time. I don’t remember her name but she worked at my factory. Stringing pearls and assembling trinkets,” said Valjean, and they continued on their way.



“I will need her name for her arrest record.”



Which prompted another pleading gaze and nervously gesticulating hands. “You said it yourself, she is contagious. The hospital is a better place for her and she isn’t in a condition to run away. If you feel the need you can always station one of the junior gendarmes at her bedside. Maybe that is a good idea anyway, she is in such a state that she might fight the nuns.” The last part made the con wrinkle his forehead in worry.



“Nice to see you so sensible for a change, but please refrain from trying to interfere in my work,” Javert scolded and strode around a corner. They were on the correct street at least and he was looking forward to getting rid of his newest detainee.



“If you had taken the offer of funds to renovate and expand the city jail you would have more options. You complain at every quarterly report that your cells are too small and always filled to capacity. But you still refused funding every time it was offered. The station house and the jail are the last public institutions that haven’t been given an overhaul!”



Those words made Javert stop abruptly and from the yelp and flailing it had nearly caused the infuriating, interfering pest to crash into his back. He looked around to check, but nobody, not even the whore, was paying close attention to them. “The city coffers would not open for such a request and I’ll be damned if I accept 

your

 money! Tread carefully or you will personally come to regret the state of the old prison cells. Make no mistake, a simple assault on a respected citizen will only occupy me for so long. I have not forgotten that you disregarded my order to stay at home! I am not amused and we will have words about your stunt today. Worry about your own fate for a change because I will require some very convincing arguments to not throw you in a cell and throw away the key!”



“I know that I need to apologize sincerely, going outside was not proper behavior, and involving your officer - well. It seemed like the correct thing to do at the time,” rambled Valjean and looked up at him hopefully, his hazel eyes wide and guileless.



Such tactics would not work on Javert! “Will I agree to your explanation?” he asked pointedly and shouldered his way through the gate to the courtyard of his station house without waiting for an answer. When had they ever agreed on anything of real importance?



The gendarme guarding the entrance gaped at the strange sight, the normally so composed inspector with a woman in his arms and the mayor trailing after him, all three of them in different stages of disarée, and then had to scramble after his boss. The man was forthwith firmly instructed to send an urchin with a message to the hospital. A doctor should be politely asked to consult. Javert took a deep breath and shoved his burden into Darnasse’s arms, another of his men, with more orders of what to do and which cell to take her to.



One of the things most exasperating about Valjean was that in all his numerous dubious dealings, there was nearly always a twisted kernel of sanity and common sense to be found. It would have been easier to dismiss and forget him without that niggling ‘but he has a point’, pecking away at the stern inspector’s foundations.



“In here.” With an impatient tilt of his head, Javert directed Valjean towards his small office. It wasn’t much bigger than a broom closet but there was nothing better available and at least he did not have to share a room stuffed full of desks as his gendarmes did. There was enough room here for his desk, two chairs and a bookcase; that was all Javert needed. And a small, chipped wash basin on a frame in the corner with the mismatched pitcher standing out of the way on the floor. 



Javert spent enough nights here instead of his apartment to warrant this small luxury. He pushed the con in front of the stand and supervised the clean-up before carefully getting rid of as much filth as he was able to on himself without stripping bare and changing into his spare uniform.



Valjean did not comment but obediently sank onto the chair the inspector pulled out for him.



Crossing his arms in front of his chest and leaning against the bookcase stuffed full of files and boxes, Javert waited and silently began to count.



He did not reach twenty-five before Valjean could not stand the silence any longer. 



“You did not tell Sergeant Liné that I was forbidden to see visitors.”



Javert’s eyebrows rose in consternation. No, he had not explicitly instructed the sergeant to refuse everyone entry under those exact orders, but he had told Liné that their mayor was in severe danger and needed guarding and isolation while keeping up the pretense of normality. That pretty much implied strongly that nobody should be allowed contact, didn’t it?



During the day, before Liné had taken Javert’s place as a watchdog, the inspector had indeed needed to send quite a few people away. Some of them had been servants inquiring for their masters after the mayor’s health, and some of them had been prominent members of society who had tried to visit personally. Those individuals unfortunately required more finesse (and patience) to get rid of than the few polite but curt words that had been enough to deal with the servants. It seemingly hadn’t taken long for everyone and their dog to know that something unusual was going on. Javert would take bets and not lose that Madeleine’s house had attracted a lot more visitors today than normally in a week. Why must people be so bloody nosy?



It had been nearly three o’clock in the afternoon before fatigue and the need to be in a dwelling that wasn’t drenched in Valjean's scent had prompted him to seek his bed and recuperate. 



“Do not tell me that Liné played your majordomo and invited people into your sitting room! Did he take their coats and offer them coffee and refreshments?” Fellow Sentinel or not, Javert would reprimand him so his ears would ring for days and then demote him! 



“No, he did not. But he did not know how to categorically deny some of the council members like you did. They came back and used him as a messenger boy. The good Sergeant did not seem to mind, it made the day less monotonous, he said.”



Javert grumbled and massaged the bridge of his nose. That was not as bad as he had feared when it came to Liné but it did not explain how simple messages had resulted in Valjean strolling about the town - especially a dangerous part of town - with Liné tailing him. Which was what he pressed out between his teeth.



Valjean shrugged his shoulders. “You stressed the need for discretion. Council member Moulin expressed his annoyance at the disruption of the daily flow. There was a meeting I should have attended today, it was to finalize the plan for the new street lamps at the docks. They are in deplorable condition and the lamplighters refuse to service that part of town not only because the area is not reputable, but one of the old lamps malfunctioned last month and injured a worker. The lack of proper illumination adds to the unsafe conditions and aids criminality.”



It did, yes. “Agreed, but why would that prompt you to immediately inspect the docks personally?”



“In my absence the council graciously agreed to the refurbishment and repair of all sixteen streetlamps and the proposal will be ratified the day after tomorrow if nobody voices opposition,” Valjean stated drily and then closed his mouth and waited, his long fingers steepled in front of him.



It did not take Javert long to see the issue. “There are at least twenty street lamps along the Rue de Chevalle alone. There have to be a dozen more spread along the other roads of the old harbor district.”



“Despite what you might think, my purse is not endlessly full. It is always a task akin to Sysiphus rolling his boulder uphill to try and convince the council to agree to anything that is pouring money into Lower Town. Lo and behold, my back is turned and they are trying to weasel out of this one. None of them have or will admit to ever setting a foot into the harbor district. I intended to be seen inspecting the lamps so nobody could say I estimated the cost wrongly, and have Liné witness my assessment. My word still counts for something and if this project progresses far enough before I might no longer be able to influence the outcome,” that part he said delicately, “that is a worthy cause.”



“And you couldn’t wait for my return?”



“You would have said no,” Valjean admitted calmly.



“There must have been better options than to go yourself. And it had nothing to do with testing the waters? Trying to see how much latitude you might expect from me?” said Javert slowly, his eyes narrowed suspiciously.



“I did not try to run, did I?” 



That provoked a deep growl. “There’s a difference between ‘did not’ and ‘did not plan to’. You did not explicitly deny you wouldn’t just now, did you?” 



“As if you would trust me on my word alone, Sentinel or no Sentinel.” Valjean shrugged his broad shoulders and crossed his feet. “But back to the girl-”



“Valjean!” The last thing Javert wanted to do was spend more time on the prostitute and her clear cut offenses when there were more serious problems to be solved.



But the stubborn man would not be deterred. “I cannot help but feel responsible for her fate. Tomorrow, if you permit, I will send a message to my factory and ask the foreman if he remembers her. There can’t have been so many dismissals over the last year, most people are eager to stay in my employ and I think I remember seeing her there no more than a few months ago. It will provide us with a name, at least. And she talked about a little girl, I worry about the child.”



That the woman’s ramblings had found fertile ground due to Valjean’s sentimental nature was no surprise but it was naive in the extreme.



“That woman was so far gone that she might have dreamed up the child for all we know. There never might have been a girl or she is long dead. Without further information, it is a wasted effort to run in circles and bark up every tree. No-” he shook his head and gestured for Valjean to keep listening, “I do not say that the child does not exist, a minor child abandoned is something to be concerned about and taken very seriously, but I did not smell a child on her skin and I was unfortunately near enough to not miss it.”



Thinking about Gardien gifts brought up another possibility and Javert leaned forward to crowd his nemesis back into the backrest of the chair. “You are foolishly softhearted and let your heart overrule good sense, but you are unusually focused on that child. Enough urchins are running around Montreuil and you never went beyond crafting them some toys from strings and building them a school. Did the wench touch you skin to skin? Think carefully! She might have transferred some impressions to you.” 



Javert closely observed the movement of the eyes, contraction of pupils and respiration. Touching an unbonded awakened Guide skin-to-skin was anathema. They had no defense against a stranger’s emotions without a bond to a Sentinel.



“Even if she touched me there was no transfer. I would know that experience and not mistake it for something else,” Valjean countered.



“You admitted that you are mostly ignorant about Gardien nature, so forgive me for my skepticism. A Guide cannot fully distinguish between foreign emotions and their own without an anchor.”



“Not while it happens, but nausea and the feeling of standing beside oneself afterward, that is pretty distinctive. You forget that I have had opportunities to learn the difference.” Valjean was pressing his lips together to not say more and shuddered, additionally closing off visibly by pulling his shoulders forward.



“Ah.” Yes, Javert had done his best to not think too closely about what a Guide must have experienced in Toulon; it made him want to do something unwise. Guards who prided themselves on following the regulations always wore gloves and only touched the galley slaves with their cudgels to direct them or reprimand them. Touching a prisoner with bare hands was forbidden. Unfortunately, some of the guards were not far removed from being just as much scum as their charges. And prison was designed to strip any dignity, shame and manners from the inmates. Most of them behaved like beasts and needed to be restrained like beasts.



They stared at each other.



“Did you see her clutch her head or try to tear at her clothes and howl in pain? No, she didn’t.” Valjean finally broke the silence.



“You are able to project your emotions?” That was a rare ability.



“Only as long as skin-to-skin contact is maintained, yes; and I do not have any control over which experiences I want to share. It never seems to be anything pleasant though. My chain mates learned very fast not to touch me.” Silent satisfaction mixed with grief fluttered over Valjean’s expressive face.



The brutes might have learned fast, but it had come at a steep price for Valjean. The man looked gutted and Javert couldn’t fault him this once for wearing his emotions on his sleeve. To have intimate insight into people’s state of being was bad enough when it came to pure matters of biology. Javert hated to smell how excited some lowlifes got by hurting other humans, he could not fathom experiencing their depraved feelings mentally.



Wretched things, feelings.



He retreated to safer ground and fetched one of the apples he had been saving for a long night at the office. It was wrinkled and had a few dark spots under the skin but it would serve. Javert reached and carefully pressed it into Valjean’s still clasped hands.



“Eat this, you look like you might keel over; the sweetness will help bolster you. And the letter is a good idea. The foreman might remember and if he does not - let’s wait for the woman to regain some semblance of clarity. Food and medicine and a roof over her head, even if it is framed by bars will help. I will personally return to the docks and seek out her fellow soiled doves. She might have confided in one of them, or they might know where she has hidden some of her possessions.”



“Thank you.” Valjean was savoring the fruit as if it was a delicacy. Some of the juice threatened to drip over his lips and he licked them clean so nothing would go to waste.



“It is my duty, do not thank me for doing my job. How often will I have to remind you?”



Valjean’s mouth quirked in that infuriating smile of his, still a little bit wet. “A few more times at least.”


 


TBC


 

Smaller is an absolute champion beta! All remaining mistakes are my own. The notes at the end are me rambling about stuff I tought interesting and not pertinent to the plot.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


They ended up back at the station house early the next morning. Yesternight it would have been useless after delivering the woman to her cell, Javert had proclaimed, for him to return to the docks and continue his investigation. The ladies of the town would have been too occupied this late into the evening - and too drunk and subsequently too belligerent - to answer any questions. This last detail he had not voiced aloud even though it couldn’t be a secret even to his do-gooder of a con. It would have only led to sad sighs and endless speculations about how best to help those unfortunate souls. And Valjean would not have liked the policeman’s replies to his musings on how to solve the issues. Best to avoid that sort of discussion.

And so Javert had escorted the mayor home under the scrutiny of a few citizens of various walks of life and had stayed with him through the night, not trusting Liné to not bungle it up again.

Leaving the main subject of his most important open case to date alone and unsupervised in the stationhouse office where the inspector had shelved his files and notes would be unprofessional and careless. Thus Javert appropriated the desk in the center of the room his gendarmes shared for their deskwork and told Valjean to not leave that spot unless he needed to relieve himself or the building was on fire.

In the first situation he would be escorted to the outhouse and the second one to the well so he could help haul water buckets.

This way the inspector had the man under his direct supervision, and could still command his gendarmes face to face instead of through messages or intermediaries, and work on his notes besides. Regular police work did not stop just because of one false mayor. And, if Javert derived some small enjoyment out of the fact that Valjean could not be comfortable sitting among half a dozen policemen who came and went at will, well, it was a minor punishment for making Javert’s life difficult, wasn’t it?

Valjean indeed looked like a long-tailed cat trapped in a room full of rocking chairs whenever the door opened to admit another uniformed figure. The con should be thankful that for most of the hours from morn to midday they had the room mostly to themselves with only short intrusions. It was Market Day and the small police force was busy supervising stalls and merchants and looking out for pickpockets in addition to the regular daily patrols. Normally the Chef de Police would be out and about as well, terrorizing the criminal element of Montreuil. Remaining inside made Javert twitchy.

Valjean noticed, because of course he did. “You want to be out there with your men instead, roaming the streets, non?”

Instead of answering at once, Javert finished an observation he had been scrawling in his notebook before looking up. The convict was sitting in his assigned chair, hands primly folded and resembling nothing more than a harmless middle-aged man with pleasing but ultimately average facial features, slightly too long hair and no fashion sense. Where had he found that green eyesore of a frock coat? It was an assault on Javert's eyes and Madeleine was known to wear it nearly every day.

“We are waiting for an important message if you care to remember, and this is where the courier will find me fastest. And we both know that I can’t let you out of my eyesight, can I?”

Valjean’s smile was a little bit crooked and small wrinkles appeared at the corners of his eyes. “I should have brought a book. Or some of my paperwork.”

“Which you aren’t to touch unless you are cleared!” Javert reminded him and then rummaged in the middle drawer of the loaned desk. Those were, by his orders, designated for items every policeman was allowed to borrow from each other and there should be - ah.

“Here, the Handbook for Policemen, read this, it is improving literature for someone like you.” The little book appeared distressingly unused and could do with some thumbing through.

Valjean took it without complaint but did not open it. “I need to manage more than official city business. I have to delegate some of my duties at the factory and while there is enough food at my house for us both and I can easily chop more firewood, after yesterday we will need the service of a washerwoman or you will not feel comfortable for much longer unless you plan to take me to your apartment?”

“No.” Hell no. Javert’s apartment consisted of one small, sparsely furnished room. It would stay blessedly convict-free.

Valjean hummed.

“Maybe you shouldn’t have sent Madame Bonnard away. She knows how to safely deal with laundry and household purchases, she must have left you a list somewhere,” said Javert.

“Safely?” Now Valjean looked at him as if the inspector had grown a second head. “I do not consider shopping to be dangerous unless someone tries to mug me and that would go badly for the robber, or have you forgotten that I can defend myself?”

As if Javert could ever forget the man’s freakish strength, that was not what was making him unhappy.

“Surely she frequents gardien-safe services for you? I use them myself, they are listed at the mairie in the official register.” They tended to be more expensive than regular merchants and an inspector’s small salary did restrict how often he could indulge in a little luxury. But a few more coins were worth not having blisters on his tongue or scratching himself raw because his cutlery was not even enough and his underwear was not washed with the correct soap.

Valjean shrugged his shoulders and patted the book he was holding like a pet. “She is unaware of my gifts. Licensed shops tend to offer better quality so it is likely that she uses them anyways.”

“That,” Javert was aghast, “is irresponsible. You should have told her!”

He reached for the cheap winged sword pin he was using as a cravat needle. It was required to be openly displayed by registered Gardiens who were part of the police force or military.

“I am not endangering anyone with my silence. My projection is solely a defense mechanism. I keep myself covered up,” protested Valjean, frowning at the accusation. His gloved hands were raised in demonstration. “I only take them off in the privacy of my home and when I am alone.”

That foolishness made Javert shake his head. “Valjean, it is normal for non-bonded Guides to get echoes off objects if other people have handled them for long enough - and you know it! Madame Bonnard has been in your employ for more than five years and you rejected four other housekeepers before her within weeks, so you have to trust her to do more than keep your house clean without helping herself to your silver.”

For some reason that made Valjean jerk as if scalded. Wasn’t that reaction interesting? Belatedly, an old report resurfaced in stark relief in Javert’s memory: reports of a bishop who had insisted that he had gifted his precious tableware to a certain parolee instead of having been robbed. Interesting, but not the problem of the hour.

Valjean refused to look the inspector in the face while he mumbled something about not owing silver tableware, copper being good enough.

“You show a disturbing amount of knowledge about my daily dealings over the years,” he finally added aloud.

“Are you surprised?” Javert raised an eyebrow.

“Not really.”

In retrospect, some of the man’s quirks that had made Madeleine appear fussy, like categorically refusing to use any fountain pen but his own to the point of delaying a meeting until it could be found, the way he always reached for one specific cup or touched furniture only in one specific spot, made a lot of sense now. Gloves had to be thin enough to perform quite delicate tasks without impediment, which made them good but not perfect barriers.

“How can you be so ignorant of necessary safety measures?” Javert sighed and massaged the bridge of his nose to ward off a headache. To think that revealing the mayor’s secret was supposed to reduce his problems.

“I am nothing much like a Guide should be, I do not think that I need the same considerations.”

Madeleine’s mien of self-denial had often made Javert scoff and he had seen it as an affectation, but maybe it was rooted in low self-esteem instead. Normally convicts tended to be very arrogant and sure of themselves. “Now that is utter nonsense. If that is what you think you can give up fighting for your freedom this minute.”

“Wouldn’t you prefer that? Being a Guide is the only reason I am not in chains!” Valjean pressed out and stared at Javert imploringly. “Do not deny that without that little detail you would have arrested me with pleasure and delightedly sent me back to hell and then forgot I ever existed!”

A fierce tremble overtook the muscular frame and his teeth were grinding together by the way the cheeks bulged and tensed.

“Valjean-” Javert hastened to carefully pull him out of his chair by the arm and steer him out of the public room, though it was for the moment blessedly empty apart from themselves. He would be able to hear anyone approaching in advance but there seemed to be no way to shut up Valjean beyond putting his palm over the other man’s mouth to prevent him from spilling more details that were best voiced in private if at all.

But the man would not be deterred, words tumbled out of his mouth as if they could not be restrained any longer while they stumbled along the short corridor to the privacy of Javert’s office. He let go of Valjean to close the door and then turned to observe the agitated man. In a way he had expected something like this to happen sooner than later. Dealing with overwrought people was not Javert’s forte but even he had seen that Valjean had been on the edge the last twenty-some hours, sea-sawing between despair and forced amiability. Not being able to sleep - the shadows under his eyes had grown - could not have helped.

“I wanted to better myself, to make a difference to others and repay the debt I owe society and it has nothing to do with me being a Guide, just being… me. It’s not imperative, I know better than anyone else that I can choose to steal and I can choose to lie without some divine power keeping me from committing a crime or magically making those abilities go dormant and marking me as forsaken if I do!”

He was breathing heavily and one gloved hand rose to hover over the front of Javert’s uniform jacket without touching. And he wasn’t finished, just forcing enough air into his lungs to continue.

Javert watched, fascinated and spellbound. For the first time, he could see some of the substance, the raw material this puzzling man was made of.

“I paid the price for my crime, for that damn piece of bread, but when I was released - Oh God, Javert, your precious Law cares more about that theft than the family I abandoned to starvation with my idiocy, which should weigh more!

“I know that I did wrong, that I should not have lied about my name either, but I was so petrified and I know that neither you nor the law you serve would consider my fear and desperation a good reason for breaking parole. Then I thought to atone and that maybe at last God had granted me some peace, and then you, of all available policemen in all of France, were transferred right under my nose! I feared that you would reveal my deception, oh yes, but at the same time I could not avoid seeking your presence even though I suspected that you were only paying me so much attention because you were suspicious. Despite everything, I hoped that I could prove to you that I am-” he hesitated, “ worthy of being considered as your friend. Worthy of being considered a good person, by you, the eternal skeptic.

“But the second you saw behind the mask of Madeleine you also started to focus on me, Jean Valjean, being a Guide, and reduced me to that as if it is the only label that counts!” Valjean was running his fingers through his locks and transforming a style that could have passed for Byronesque into something unkempt and not fit to be seen in public.

“Calm down.” Javert had never needed to be a soothing presence and he did not know how to act. Curses, confusion, and wonder were fighting for dominance in his head but all he could do was to weather this storm and let it spend its frenetic energy.

“And if that is the only trait you value then you should know that I am just as much of a fraud as a Guide as I am as a mayor.”

Well, that at least was something Javert could deal with. “Take a deep breath, hm? And forgive me for pointing this out, but from what I have seen you are not qualified to make such an assessment. You are the one who has neglected to learn anything about Gardiens beyond what is publicly available and old wives' tales. Those aren’t the most reliable sources.”

“Guides are supposed to gather people around them and consult with them, you know, letting them talk about their problems and giving advice, being the center of a community and the heartbeat of any gathering.” Valjean made a helpless, sweeping gesture encompassing an imaginary crowd. “I like bettering their lives but prefer to do so from a distance. If nobody ever again holds out their baby for me to cuddle and admire I would be ecstatic. They are sweet little bundles but I never know what to say, so I say as little as possible and smile until it freezes on my lips and I feel more of a fraud every time.”

He looked down, worrying his lower lip with his teeth and leaving little indentations.

“Whoever will be sent to evaluate me, I fear that they will take a look at me and-” Another shrug. “Throw me away.”

“See, and this point is where you are needlessly worrying about the wrong thing.” It was the easiest of the strands to untangle. Javert would not tell him that he had made the same mistake. His patron and mentor had lectured him severely for his lack of faith, if not in himself than in the leadership and competence of his Alpha, when the newly minted police officer had dared to voice his confusion and doubt, and offered to be dismissed from service as defective. Chaboulliet had taken the time to introduce him to all the Sentinels he commanded and let him see how they served the tribe in different ways. It had been eye-opening.

“Worry about your future as a free man, not if you are a Guide. If you are a failure as a Guide then I should not call myself a Sentinel. There are precious few people who trust me or even like me, does that sound like a revered protector of a tribe?”

“Maybe if you wouldn’t be as abrasive and suspect everyone of being horrible human beings?” Valjean dared to hesitantly try and tease him.

“And in most cases I am proven right!” Javert exclaimed. “But what seems to be important is that we, as Gardiens, are filling a need. And that need can take different forms. I am content to police our population and to keep the wolves at bay, to separate them from the flock, and I do not need to be liked to fulfill that purpose. Others like Liné can pat heads and console victims and understand perpetrators. My duty is to the law first and foremost, mundane and Gardien both. Maybe you have found your niche, even if it isn’t the usual one.”

Valjean sat himself down on the edge of Javert’s desk, some of the manic energy dispersing and leaving him visibly exhausted. The last few days had indeed taken a toll on the usually energetic man. “Mayhaps, but it is a transient position, not one built on a firm foundation, you said it yourself,” he murmured self-deprecatingly.

“At least you are self-aware.” Javert couldn’t help but point out and sigh when the Guide nodded. “First and foremost, remember. If you had been Madeleine, with no criminal record in truth - I do not know how our connection would have developed because I am not a fortune teller, it is pointless to speculate.”

“But you admit that there is a connection.” Valjean brightened and then his face fell again, most likely thinking about being reduced to only ‘Guide’ again.

“You exasperate me, mostly because I do not feel that I can trust you to follow something I hold dear, the Law. You are intelligent, tenacious, and kind, overly so to my everlasting frustration because I do not think some of the recipients of your mercy deserve it and it sends the wrong message to those miscreants-” Javert stopped traversing this well-trodden road and concentrated on what he wanted to express. He held up a hand to ask for a second.

Valjean was paying close attention, leaning forward on his perch and silently nodding.

“Mostly I mourn what could have been, if you had resisted trying to steal that loaf of bread.”

Now that was too much for the older man to accept without some input. “Madeleine is a fabrication. Have you ever thought that my past has greatly contributed to shaping the man I am today as your past has shaped the man you are? I would not choose to do the same things again and I do not remember all about the time before Toulon, as I said, but Jean of Faverolles, you would not have liked him. He was belligerent and uneducated and while he, while I loved my family, I could not help but see them as a burden sometimes. All of them, my older sister and her seven children, depended on me and I was inadequate to the task.” Shame colored his cheeks at this frank admission.

“I want you to accept the man I am today.” The plea in those changeable eyes was apparent and it sparked a troubling question of his own.

Javert wasn’t prone to excessive introspection, he preferred to concentrate on less ephemeral things than the state of his soul but he had to ask a question in turn in the same vein.

“One thing that keeps me from dismissing the possibility that you are playing me to save yourself is the question of how can you see me as anything other than your adversary? I was your jailor once, you fear rightfully that I would return you to your chains. I did so before. I was the one who caught you three times when you tried to escape your punishment and I, more than once, put you on the rack myself and flayed your back bloody.”

Valjean trembled but his eyes were clear. “You did your duty, nothing more. You did so with relish, that is certainly true. I hated you and your colleagues but a wise man helped me to let go of that hate, it was poisoning me. But in contrast to your colleagues, you at least were never deliberately cruel and you never miscounted or misused your position, there is kindness in that certainty. I have never met any other man who is that steadfast. You are a constant in my life, the only one and I can trust you to act a certain way even if I do not often like what you do.”

Javert released the breath he had held. The words rang true. Dear Lord, this man and his cruel kindness would one day be the end of him.

“And this is why we will wait for justice to run its course. Whatever we might be to each other, we both feel the potential, but it can only move forward if I am free to choose you as a man and a guide, and at the moment I am not. And for you to choose me.”

When had he moved so near to the other man? Only inches were separating them and despite his resolve not to give in, Javert did not move away when Valjean closed the distance to rest his forehead against Javert’s shoulder. Both men shook.

The other point of discontent wasn’t as easy to resolve- and by the Eternal, easy was the wrong expression, wasn’t it? Valjean might not hold a grudge, but his main character flaw remained: his inability to follow rules and always try to escape the consequences of his actions.

A sharp knock on the door made them jump apart.

“Inspector Javert? A messenger boy has arrived with a missive for the mayor. It’s from the manufactory.”

 

…..

Javert insisted on reading that letter first with Valjean allowing it without protest, a fine smile curving his lips. ‘Suspicious stickler for rules,’ his expression said and for once it was not meant as an insult.

The foreman’s writing and spelling left much to be desired but it included the information they had been after amid a lot of unnecessary protests and brown-nosing.

“Allard seems to fear that you would not agree with him throwing out the girl.” Javert interpreted the lines. “He accuses her of whoring and insists that he was reacting to her breach of contract, as she broke the moral code you demand your employees to follow.”

The factory rules Madeleine had installed included a moral behavior clause and prohibited the mixing of the sexes during work hours. The former owner hadn’t been so diligent and Javert could easily believe that it had contributed to the failure of the business. Workers who were occupied and distracted by the opposite sex did tend to neglect their tasks.

“Nothing about the child?” Valjean tried to peek, the squiggles on paper even harder to see around Javert’s tall frame.

“Nothing. But he appears to be nervous and is waffling. The paper still stinks of his sweat. Your kindness towards children is well known and he might fear that you would have been lenient because of the child and cross with him in turn.”

“And I would have! Maybe she only turned to such regrettable means of earning more money because she did not dare to approach me for help, the poor girl. I have to question him about it!”

“Which still would not make it your fault.” Javert gruffly handed the letter to Valjean to occupy him. He was unlikely to glean more of it than the inspector unless Allard had written in code and that was equally unlikely considering Allard’s penmanship.

Javert was concerned as well, in a more detached way, about the possibility of a missing girl. Keeping track of orphans and abandoned children was within his mandate, but someone had to keep a cool head on their shoulders because he could see that Valjean would not be reasonable.

“Unless someone held her child hostage-” and the alarmed way Valjean reared back made Javert regret choosing that specific possibility, “or held a gun to her head and forced her, if she was old enough to work at your factory she was old enough to know the consequences of her actions.”

“Her name is Fantine Moreau*, according to her payslips.” Valjean consulted the letter. “It is telling that he knew at once who we were inquiring about, non?”

“It must have been a memorable scene when he fired her,” Javert agreed.

“Will you let me speak with Mademoiselle Moreau?”

“I want to talk to her myself, so why not accompany me? But don’t expect much, her condition was bad and it will take some time for any medication to improve her overall health, the doctor was pessimistic about her recovery.” To no surprise to Javert.

“You seem to be very knowledgeable about this illness.” Valjean, more centered now with a task to occupy him, made use of the small mirror on the wall to tidy up his appearance.

“Maybe someday soon I will tell you why.” It was a gruff, reluctant concession.

Valjean proved the inspector’s earlier observation about his intelligence by sending him a sharp look and a pointed question. “Does it have to do with the way you tense a certain way whenever prostitutes come up? It differs slightly from your disdain for other people you look at with contempt.”

Now who was the one paying so much attention to the other? Javert sighed and inclined his head but refused to elaborate. There had been enough emotional bloodletting today.

And Valjean agreed because he restricted himself to silent concern and changed the conversation back to the matter of Fantine.

TBC

Things I found out while writing this chapter:* Hugo (and the musical version) never gave Fantine a surname but she must have had one as her civil identity would demand more than simply ‘Fantine’ for payslips. Fantine isn’t that unique as a sole identifier. Moreau was my invention, not his. Which is to say that she likely would have given more than her first name to her employer. If it was a ‘legal’ surname is another thing entirely. The system wasn’t as strict as today and unless higher legal matters were involved, there was no fixed naming as identification of an individual like today. Since illiteracy was high, putting what we would nowadays call a nickname on a simple document wasn’t seen as a huge problem when a lot of people only learned to scrawl their initials to sign documents. (There is a lot more to it but for brevity’s sake….) And since poor people seldom had to deal with landownership or bigger inheritances where identity and primogeniture were important the government did not care much. The first modern(-ish) census in France happened in 1801, to give an idea of how unimportant birthdate and family name were for a long time. Interestingly enough, for me *grins* is that if that wasn’t the case neither would Valjean have had such an easy time with pretending to be Madeleine, at least when it came to the mayorship, nor would Champmathieu have had so many difficulties to prove that he wasn’t Valjean.

An aside: There is speculation in the fandom that Jean Valjean might not have been the correct legal name either in the strictest sense (some of it fuelled by the sheer ridiculousness of Jean Valjean / John McJohn?!?), not that it mattered for the system after he was convicted because it erased his civil identity. His family was known for using excessive variations of Jean as a given name for multiple members and generations so Valjean might have started out as a sobriquet for that clan among the residents of Faverolles. That might not be news for the old guard of the fandom, it certainly was for me and since I tend to babble to all my friends: isn’t this interesting?

All bow to the mighty smaller, defeater of language snafus.

If Valjean had been nervous in the middle of the police station proper, he was nearly vibrating out of his skin when they entered the cell wing of the building, the con walking in front of Inspector Javert. No chains bound him, but for someone who had insisted repeatedly that he would like to come here, if only to speak with that prostitute, he was now hesitating at every corner as if he could already hear the doors closing behind him. Javert did push him lightly forward but kept the touch to the shoulder, not the small of the other man’s back.

“Steady,” he murmured. “Let’s get this over with.”

Valjean nodded shakily without turning around. But he straightened his posture and visibly pulled the mantle of Madeleine around himself.

Montreuil-sur-Mer was in no way a metropolis and thus not in need of more than a few holding cells sturdy enough to keep drunkards and pickpockets secure. Any crime that exceeded a few days in lockup would see the perpetrator delivered to Arras to await trial. Thus the city’s prison was not much more than a small building in the backyard sharing a wall with the station house. The inside was divided into a holding area by a long row of iron bars, and the only thing Javert had altered when taking command was that he had had the dividing bars sectioning the holding area in three replaced by sturdy walls instead.

Javert had been incensed by whomever had thought it a good idea to separate cells with only iron bars, even if it had been less expensive and easier to keep the prisoners in plain sight from the door. It was better for everyone if the prisoners were unable to conspire with each other from adjoining cells with the bars as an ineffectual barrier between them, or allow antagonists to leer at or provoke each other, or, as on one memorable occasion during the inspector’s first week in Montreuil, try to strangle each other, as Madame Moulin had tried to do with her long time rival Marcel Gervais.

Nowadays those two could only holler and glare at unfeeling mortar whenever they were too drunk to forget that it had been over twenty years since Gervais’ son had run off with Moulin’s daughter. The formidable matron was at the moment occupying the bunk across from Fantine in the cell on the far end of the cell block, snoring loudly and in dissonant concert with Gervais in the cell nearest the door. The biggest and central cell was filled with the usual weekend collection of too-rowdy soldiers on leave and the local troublemakers.

The station house might be old and run down, and that extended to its cells, but everything was kept clean and functional. Javert would not accept otherwise, for the sake of order and for his own nose. Cleaning the prison was the most dreaded punishment and a task he assigned to whomever of his men deserved it most.

Javert huffed and glared at Liné, who was the culprit du jour for his lapse guarding Madeleine. Maybe official guard and clean-up duty would teach that old dog some new tricks.

“Report!” he demanded, stepping around and then in front of Valjean so he was unable to hurry to Fantine just yet.

“Good morning Inspector! Nothing of note has happened. Pierre Gervais has already settled the fine for both his old man and his mother-in-law. He is very apologetic about the fuss they caused. Again,” Liné rattled off, his posture picture-perfect, his enormous mustache twitching.

“Apologetic enough to remove all alcohol from their home or at least prevent them from getting drunk on a regular basis?” Javert doubted it, the Gervaises were one of the local innkeepers, and an inn without spirits was like hell without lost souls.

By the way Liné philosophically shook his head, he agreed.

“Sister Simplice,” the sergeant nodded at the nun who was sitting on a stool outside the cells praying, “has washed the whore and changed her into something brought over from the hospital, something more respectable. We don’t know what to do with the filthy dress, that girl won’t be able to pay the medical bill, nor her fine, much less a washerwoman.”

Valjean wordlessly began to dig inside his pockets and finally retrieved a few sous and one Louis d’or, offering everything to Sergeant Liné. “Will that be enough?”

Javert growled, and shook his head when the con sent him a small, hesitant smile in reaction. “I forgot about this, it’s just change,” Valjean whispered.

Just change? It was more than Javert earned in a month.

Liné ignored the byplay and stared at the shiny coins. “More than enough, Monsieur le Maire, but the chit, she won’t make it and a public grave will cost less than that, well-” the sergeant stuttered to a halt when he saw the pained look on his mayor’s face.

“The doctor confirmed this?” Javert demanded to know.

“Yes. He left laudanum to keep the pain away but he was not optimistic. Without a miracle-” Liné faltered and then sighed.

“Did you find any papers or anything unusual in her possession?” Javert placed his open, gloved palm over the still outstretched hand with the money and pushed it slowly back against Valjean’s chest, inclining his head and staring pointedly until the other man hid the coins away.

Liné turned the key and opened the gate made of iron bars that separated the two station house wings. The two officers of the law and the convict in disguise entered and neared the cell and the waiting nun. She averted her eyes after nodding to them in greeting and resumed her prayer.

“No official papers of identity were found. Only a few letters, a flask of gin, and a thin shawl.”

“Letters?” Valjan piped up.

“Half a dozen, and most of them are too creased and smudged to be used as anything but kindling,” Liné dashed their hopes for an easy solution. “I put them in a bag with the rest of her things and stored them in the shed.”

“I will interview the woman. Retrieve the letters only, leave the rest, maybe they will shed some light on a possible custody issue,” Javert ordered and held his hand out for the heavy keyring.

“As you wish, Sir.” Liné saluted and did as he was ordered.

The nun observed the two men out of the corner of her eye and crossed herself. “She is a poor lost lamb,” she murmured.

Javert scoffed but his sentimental companion stumbled forward to clutch the bars to keep himself steady while his hazel eyes changed to muddy brown and were riveted to the wench.

It made the Sentinel change his instinctive scoff to a growl and reach out to pry thin but strong fingers free and haul the idiot backward before he could do himself harm by revealing more than was proper.

“Careful,” he admonished.

“Look at her. How could I have been so heartless, destroying a life with my inattention.”

There was no arguing when Valjean was like this. Javert did not try but resolved to finish this errand as fast as possible. He opened the cell door so they could enter, doubting that the wretch would acknowledge them if they stayed outside, the way she turned her head and mumbled.

Fantine Moreau was only recognizable as the woman from the night before by her shorn head and her feverish blue eyes. The lack of make-up or lurid costume brought full attention to her nearly skeletal body and unhealthy, blue-tinted lips. She was bundled up in old blankets and still shivering in her cocoon, staring at nothing.

“Mademoiselle Moreau?” Valjean said softly and bent over her bunk so she would be able to see him more easily.

Both men watched her closely. She blinked and something like awareness sharpened her gaze, closely followed by despair and anger.

“If you spit on him again, girl, I will restrain you, make no mistake,” Javert warned sharply.

It earned him a scandalized and reproachful frown from Valjean, as expected, and a pathetic whimper from the prostitute.

“Mercy,” she pleaded again and then blinked vaguely, huddling in on herself.

“For your child, certainly. Where is she?” Javert reached around Valjean and took hold of her chin, uncaring of the faint sheen of sweat, so she would be unable to turn her head away to avoid his piercing stare.

“Cosette?” she wondered and then flinched and stared at the inspector like he was the one not making sense.

“That is her name? Where is she?” Javert demanded again, but kept his voice carefully low, aware of curious ears from the occupants of the middle cell. Cosette sounded more like a term of endearment than a legal birth name, but what did he know about naming a child?

“But she is over there, you brought her to me!” Fantine cried, and struggled out of her blanket to point at the closed door leading to the station house, her other hand clamping like a vise around the wrist of the big hand holding her face in place. “My darling, why aren’t you abed? It is late…”

Mid-morning sun was streaming merrily through the small and barred window high up on the wall.

Javert and Valjean shared a look and shivered at the same time. The inspector slowly let go and even tugged the blanket back around the raving woman when the mayor attempted to do it himself.

“Such a sweet angel, such a good girl.” Fantine smiled and her eyelids fluttered. Javert spent the next few minutes trying to get her to answer him with more than senseless musings, but she only wavered between her fantasies and staring at him in fright.

“Let me try?” Valjean finally asked and then, before he could be denied, stroked his gloved fingertips across her glistening forehead to catch her attention.

“I am an old man and my eyesight isn’t good. I want to buy a new dress for such a wonderful girl like your Cosette, but I need to know what will compliment her. Will you allow me?”

“Strangers shouldn’t buy dresses for girls,” she whispered.

Javert huffed at both of them. At the unrepentant liar who was nothing near old and still had the eyesight of a hawk, and at the woman who had finally said something sensible but still managed to be unhelpful.

“I could be her grandfather and I don’t mean her harm. She is only seven years old, is she? Winter is coming, she will need a new warm dress.”

Fantine nodded and licked her lips. “She is always cold and she easily gets sick. Medicine is expensive.”

Valjean smiled softly and patted the cocoon where her arms were now safely hidden. “What is her favorite color? Green would look good with her dark hair.”

“Hair like spun moonlight, lighter than my own, and she is only five, you must mistake her for someone else. Look, she is over there! Oh, how much she has grown…” Her eyes fluttered closed and she began to hum a lullaby.

“Where is her bed? She needs to go to sleep soon,” Javert joined in with gritted teeth.

“The innkeeper promised to treat her like his own girls. So many rooms to choose from,” Fantine sighed and slipped into unconsciousness.

“I promise you, your child will be safe, I will do everything in my power. I owe you that much,” Valjean promised, his eyes suspiciously wet.

Javert disagreed vehemently, but how to convince the overwrought Guide? “You owe her nothing! Everyone is born in sin, everyone must choose their way,” he admonished.

“But children are innocent and to be protected. Choices are for adults.”

“Well, at least the ones with severe legal consequences are.” That was finally something Javert agreed with. And a girl of five was indeed innocent. Javert led Valjean away from the fitfully sleeping woman, letting the waiting nun take their place at her side. The holy woman ignored them and started patting her face with a wet rag. He looked back.

“She gave us some clues at least, thanks to your lying. You can’t help yourself, can you? And drawing me into it as well, making me an accomplice to your depravity.”

The smile on Valjean’s lips was decidedly amused, if faint. “It worked, didn’t it?”

“She talked about the child being ill, let’s hope the letters will give us more information and that the girl hasn’t died and the mother is in denial and dreaming about better times.” Even the age she had mentioned might be inaccurate.

“Always the suspicious pessimist.”

Two gendarmes who returned from their patrols with a drunkard between them stared at their boss and the mayor murmuring with their heads together.

“I am a realist,” Javert insisted, and then barked at his men to get on with their duty and not stare like dumb sheep.

Liné returned with the letters and Javert handed him back the keys. On their way back to the office Javert examined the pitiful stack he now held in his hands. The sergeant hadn’t been exaggerating; beyond their less-than-clean condition, the letters had been reread and refolded so often that most of the content could only be guessed at.

Policeman and convict shared a desk and divided up the small pile between them, each with a piece of paper and a pencil to take notes with. All seven missives had been penned by the same hand and whomever it had been hadn’t taken the time to write legibly or correctly. Letters were attached to words they had no business with even being near, and making heads or tails out of the meaning of the sentences was hard, because some words had in turn no logical reason to be scrawled in the sequence used. The only things the main body of the missives shared were clear, pointed demands for money.

The signature at the bottom wasn’t legible either but the address was, and Javert didn’t have to look it up on a map, having heard the name before. Montfermeil was a small town near Paris.

It did not take the talents of a dedicated inspector to look at the demands and suss out that it all boiled down to a person of ill repute taking advantage of an easy mark. Valjean had come to the same conclusion and grew more agitated the more they compared information.

“This one is the most recent, by its condition. Whoever wrote this, they are demanding another payment for medicine. Ten francs? It must be quite a severe illness to warrant a doctor with such high bills.” Valjean was using his business acumen to assemble an impromptu ledger detailing costs and demands.

“It’s an extortion scheme, plain and simple. Do not read too much into the amounts.”

“I do not disagree. Consider this one,” Valjean pointed at his list. “A good coat for an adult, if it is second-hand, would cost less than what this supposed nice warm blue winter coat they bought for Cosette is worth. Even if they bought everything they said they did but jacked the prices- they have defrauded poor Fantine. Their demands are outrageous.”

Javert pulled the list over and added a few lines and numbers of his own for completion. He wasn’t as good with numbers as Valjean but even a rough estimate was mindboggling. “We do not know how much money Moreau has sent them, a girl like her does not earn much. But the debt is certainly smaller than this writer would claim.”

“I will pay the difference and bring Cosette to her mother.”

“No, you won’t!” Fierce righteousness clashed against stubborn dedication. “You are under house arrest, or have you forgotten? And I will eat my hat before you waste money on a scoundrel!”

“You call me naive but a man who extorts money from a helpless woman will not agree to simply hand the child over, she is his goose that lays the golden eggs! If we do not rescue her he will find other uses for her. We have both seen enough of such men to know what that means for the child. That sort of man has no compunctions.” Valjean sprang up from his seat to pace up and down, as much as the office allowed. “We have to rescue her, and fast.”

“Criminals have no right to demand anything! Not you either. Valjean, don’t be stupid now. You have a good chance to avoid a life sentence but only if you tread softly. Not being here when a delegation from the Societé arrives will spoil your chances. Montreuil is a day and a half away by carriage, and the answer we are waiting for might arrive as soon as tomorrow. The girl, if she is even alive, can wait a few days more. I will see to her welfare myself.”

“I will not buy my freedom with an innocent life.” Valjean was again messing up his hair and kept pacing like a tiger in too small a cage.

“And it is not some overblown sense of responsibility for something you are only peripherally involved in?” Javert wondered if he would have to fetch cuffs and chains to keep his con from running off like Don Quixote in search of a windmill.

“I feel, very strongly, that we are running out of time. I am urged to hurry. Do I have to beg you?” The idiot turned and made a move as if to sink to his knees in front of the inspector like a supplicant, in the middle of the office where anyone entering at the wrong moment would be able to see.

Javert cursed and caught him before he could follow through. Jean Valjean had never voluntarily bent his proud head. He had glowered and snarled, defiant to the last, or had retreated into stubborn silence, and Javert had freely and often called him a fool for his inability to submit. But that did not mean that he would enjoy such a sight, he was realizing now.

“Stop this! Begging has never worked on me but a good argument might.” Both his hands clasped Valjean on each shoulder to keep him from bolting, and Javert was aware that if the older man wanted to and brought his indomitable strength into play he would be able to overpower the inspector, despite their difference in size.

Javert would follow him if he ran, of course, but he knew deep down that if things deteriorated to that point, it would ruin both of them.

But for now, Valjean was keeping the peace, only fidgeting in place and breathing heavily.

Javert shook him a little bit so he would stop and think. Then he did it again for good measure. And maybe that was the push needed, because Valjean began to use words again, instead of flailing around.

“There is no rational evidence I can offer. As soon as Fantine pointed at where she thought Cosette stood, a string began to wind around my heart, and it is tightening and pulling at me.” He swallowed heavily. “If I promise not to try and escape, will you-?”

“Let you go? No.” That would be impossible. But… a threat to the pride did trump procedure, didn’t it? Before the Revolution, the main cause for Gardiens to mobilize had been a danger to young children. Thirty years later their population was spread so thin that only the big cities enjoyed much protection and the underbelly of humanity had begun to exploit this lack of bastion against their cruelty.

And even when Guides and Sentinels had been more plentiful, only direct threats by violence had called the protectors to action, otherwise every starving urchin and sick child would have activated that instinct to protect. Investigating the situation of Moreau’s daughter personally by accompanying a Guide on a mission, and hopefully proving that there had been a good reason to not delay a rescue attempt, would count in their favor.

“Let us return to Liné, I have an idea.”

It wasn’t a promise of full compliance, but Valjean nevertheless looked at Javert like he had offered him the stars.

The dour - and usually proud of his self-control - inspector wanted to curse up a storm at the way this man was making everything so damn complicated. Before, catching a culprit and bringing them to justice had been a straightforward process. Now Javert found himself weighing options against each other and thinking outside absolutes for this situation. It was maddening.

…..

 

“Would your wife agree to help?” It was a huge favor to ask and Javert did not do it lightly.“I do not want to expose her to this miasma, but I need to know if what he seems to perceive is true, or if it is overwrought imagination acting up.” He nodded in the direction of Valjean who was hovering just out of touching range of the hallucinating prostitute. So much for keeping him contained inside Madeleine’s house. Nobody had to tell Javert that when it came to Valjean his prized impartiality was rapidly being eroded. Maybe Liné would be able to add some objectivity to this mess.

Liné hesitated and worried at his mustache, twirling the ends between his fingertips before answering, “My Marie regularly helps out at the hospital so she would know what to do and what to look for when it comes to lucidity. Better than our gendarmes, that’s for sure. But about monsieur le maire’s… hm, instincts? His gifts exceed my Marie’s. And when it comes to children in death’s grasp, he has been correct before. It’s why-” The older officer stopped and grimaced, looking faintly guilty. “I promised not to tell anyone.”

“Is it germane to this investigation?”

Liné squirmed even more under Javert’s increasing scrutiny. “Maybe? You found out about his secret, didn’t you, Sir?”

“About him being a Guide?” asked Javert.

“Ah. No, about the well, the other thing?” The last words he whispered, looking around surreptitiously.

This was not a good day for Javert’s equilibrium. “Please tell me that you did not keep silent while a person with a shady past was appointed mayor. So help me, Liné- !” he hissed. This sounded less like Javert building his own suspicions over the years, and more like Liné having had firm proof.

“Is this really the time and place?” the sergeant asked hastily and backed away before his superior could corner him. “It’s a rather lengthy issue and complicated.”

“It always is with that man, but we will talk, and soon. Send a message to your wife.” Javert wondered if insanity was contagious.

 

Marie Liné was a tiny woman. Javert felt as if he would be able to lift her with one hand, but she entered the cell block, took one look at the situation and took charge. In no time a small storage room had been aired and equipped with a cot and even Javert, after some initial protests, had meekly followed her orders.

“Wasn’t this a wonderful compromise between a prison cell and the hospital?” she said and the men had nodded along. And she was right. This way Fantine would have peace and quiet with no drunken singing robbing her of what little sleep she could manage, and she would still be contained with a simple padlock on the door. That room wasn’t used for anything important and was in easy reach of where the guard for the jail kept watch.

Marie Liné hadn’t been able to detect anything unusual about the sick woman, but she had confirmed that there was a faint tether attached to Madeleine’s core.

She also kept scolding the mayor for not taking good care of himself, which made up for the embarrassment Javert felt about allowing her free rein, and had taken over the inspector’s office to remedy some of her concerns about the situation. Her questions about her fellow Guide’s daily meditation routines had not been answered to her satisfaction at all. Seeing Valjean under the thumb of the older Guide and following her like an obedient puppy was amusing and Javert had a new respect for his sergeant. A man who managed to woo such a formidable woman had to have hidden qualities beyond what Javert had been able to observe.

Not enough respect to not pull Liné aside for a conversation though, when the opportunity presented itself. The two officers retreated to the far side of the room where they still could watch Madame converse with her new student.

“Why should I not suspend you for aiding and abetting a criminal? The truth, if you please.”

Liné sighed and nodded where his wife was plying both the nun and the cowed and only faintly protesting mayor with a special blend of tea she insisted would help settle their nerves. “It’s not as if he is dangerous, or an immediate threat.”

“That-” Javert’s glare intensified a few grades, “is one of the stupidest things I have ever heard and that says a lot. He can be an immense threat!”

Valjean’s head turned in their direction, his eyes alert and wide, the color of fresh grass in summer. They were just as changeable as the man himself, now that he was using his Guide gifts. When no danger manifested, his attention turned back to listening to Marie Liné.

Her husband placidly shrugged his shoulders. “So can everyone else, it comes with being human. But I can understand why you are concerned, Sir, and I did not want to deceive you. Frankly, I forgot about it and I was following orders.”

“Whose orders?” If this was turning out to be some big conspiracy Javert would arrest the whole city!

“Your predecessor. You might have heard about the day Madeleine appeared in Montreuil? About the fire?” Liné fiddled with his revers.

“It is a favorite story at the inn and hardly a secret.”

“No, it isn’t, is it? Shall we take a walk, Sir? I do not think they will go anywhere without us noticing, and there are too many curious ears here.”

Javert called for Thierry, one of the gendarmes who had returned earlier with the drunkard, and ordered him to guard the room and not let anyone in or out but Javert or Liné. Or else! Then the two officers silently walked across the courtyard and climbed the hidden wooden staircase to the platform overseeing the building and a good quarter of the city. There was hardly enough space for two grown men on it.

After taking a deep breath of cold winter air, Liné started with his tale. “There was a fire. As you know, sorry Sir. Ah well, nobody knew that our Chef’s children were still in the house. We thought they were at church. We did not have a school back then, not a proper one.” Liné offered his snuff-box but Javert declined.

“The pastor’s sister used to be the one to teach the little ones to read and write, did a good job of it, she did. But little Pascal and Sophie snuck back home to play that day instead of learning their letters. I don’t think they started the fire on purpose, but who knows, they admitted to playing around like children tend to do. The fire was out of control by the time it was discovered.”

The sergeant nodded at a burnt-out husk that stood tucked between the station house and the old city ramparts. “Inspector Beaufort’s family has lived here for generations, he still owns that house but when they moved away, it was not worth the money to rebuild - maybe his son will one day return and do it.”

“Get to the point.”

“Ah, yes, sorry. No need to become upset. It became clear fast that the only thing we could do was prevent the fire from spreading, that old thing went up like tinder. We had no idea the children were inside. And suddenly there was this gaunt, badly dressed man, screaming at us.”

That fit. Javert nodded and rested his forearms against the railing. He had researched what had become of prisoner 24601, and the last time the man had checked into a guard station to register himself as a traveler, like he was supposed to, had been in a small city between Digne and Lyon and only a scant weeks after his release. There was no way he had shed the appearance and demeanor of a galley slave completely in such a short time.

“At least I can stop worrying about this city’s gendarmes' collective intelligence and observation skills. You made me worry the last few days about how you could have been so blind to overlook the obvious. Mistaking such a figure for a mere traveler and prospective citizen?”

Liné hummed and shook his head. “In our defense, we were occupied with an enormous fire and afterward - But let me tell it in order. Most of us were organizing a bucket line from the Canche and the Chef and I stood over there directing people. At first, we thought the man was insane, or even responsible for the fire, but before we could restrain him he threw away his walking stick and travel bag and flung himself through the door. Insane, totally insane we thought. But then the windows upstairs burst and we could hear the screams.”

Liné shuddered. “My hearing is less than average, worse than most mundanes’. The only elevated senses I have are smell and touch, and those are useless for a policeman. The Chef tried to follow the stranger but the staircase collapsed before he could reach it. We thought - surely nobody could escape that inferno? But the stranger managed it, came out by scaling down the only wall that wasn’t fully aflame, the children wrapped in his coat, on his back. The three of them were singed and coughing and of course we concentrated on the little ones at first.”

Javert slowly released the breath he had held. He had the indisputable proof of Valjean’s survival in the form of the man himself, by the sounds of it now trying to achieve a meditative state just a few minutes away, but looking at the burnt-out husk made the hairs at the back of his neck stand on end.

“The fire was still going strong, the threat not over. Chef Beaufort tried to embrace the hero who saved his family, but the man was crying, clutching something in his hands. I did not get a good look at it and he shoved it out of sight when he regained his senses.”

“The yellow passport.”

“Maybe, I can’t say. When we asked for his name, he at first didn’t want to answer and then he gave his name as Jean Madeleine and said that his papers had burned, and he could not show them. Not a word about what sort of papers they’d been. And Beaufort let it go. What could he do, arrest the man after he had rescued the children?”

Some of Javert’s irritation must have shown on his face because Liné hastened to add that they kept a very close eye on their new resident to make sure that they hadn’t invited the Trojan Horse into their fair city.

“He was a model citizen who never caused any problems, and opened his factory soon after. Beaufort said to let him be. To be honest, I forgot about it. It’s been years,” he repeated his earlier statement.

Forgetting about that? What a poor excuse. Javert scoffed. That was hard to believe; Valjean was pretty much unforgettable. A man who was a convict, a liar, a cheat, and at the same time a competent businessman and a hero. To encounter such in one man was against everything Javert had always believed to be true.

Shouldn’t his criminal leanings snuff out any other tendencies or taint them beyond redemption? Whenever he had seen a lowlife act nobly, by returning a stolen purse or helping another, it always turned out to be with an eye to their own benefit. Javert groaned and massaged his aching forehead, thinking of the list he had made and the negative examples on it. Convict was the easiest, made only exceptional by the stupidity of transforming five years into nineteen. Liar? Valjean lied each time he put his false name on a document, but did not use the alias to further any criminal agenda; Cheat? Even that was not as simple as Javert had thought it to be, because if what Liné had said was true, when Valjean cheated by shedding the shackles of his parole he had not planned it with ill intent.

Now, what should Javert do with a man like that?

 

TBC

Again, big thank you to smaller for the beta work.

Javert looked down at the bent head resting against his shoulder, both men swaying lightly with the movement of the coach. It was a well-sprung vehicle, the most comfortable and lightly built that had been available, while still having a roof. But not even the best cartwright could magically transform country roads into a smooth parade ground. Whenever a wheel hit a stone the coach jumped and bounced, and with it its passengers. Valjean slept on, to Javert’s astonishment and grudging approval. This way at least one of them would be well-rested when they arrived.

The lack of control, the knowledge that a stranger was responsible for the vehicle, was irritating and prevented him from relaxing. Javert would have preferred to make the journey on horseback instead, but when they had visited the stable and waited in front of Javert’s bay gelding’s box for someone to notice them and offer assistance, Valjean had admitted that he had never learned how to ride, saying that he would only fall off even the most sweet-natured nag.

Gymont had stuck out his noble head to greet his rider.

“That is a beautiful animal you have there,” Valjean had said with honest admiration but at a respectful distance from the stall and the animatedly stomping horse, tossing his head and headbutting the inspector in greeting.

“Quite!” Javert had agreed, pleased on behalf of his steed but nevertheless reaching for the forelock of the gelding to calm him down before Valjean could lose his nerves.

“But he can’t carry us both.” Apart from the fact that riding double would be exhausting for the horse, it would have also been far more intimate than Javert felt comfortable with. The small detail, that he would never have let Valjean ride a horse on his own unsupervised, he did not mention. Just because Javert had changed his mind about Valjean’s level of criminality did not mean that he had to be negligent in his duties. A pair of handcuffs, and a lead to guide the second horse as soon as they left the town, had been the inspector’s plan. That option falling through, hiring a carriage was the only viable option left.

Well, he now glanced down at the sleeping man, the joke was on Javert, wasn’t it? Though, this wasn’t as bad as it could be; the constant fidgeting Valjean had subjected Javert to while confined for the last day and a half had been worse. And wasn’t that fitting? Valjean was once more breaking the natural order. Instead of trying to stay as far away from his hunter as possible, he was sleeping peacefully, using Javert as a pillow.

Madeleine’s fortune had afforded them the fastest and freshest team of carriage horses, together with the most experienced driver and groom available. They had chosen the biggest stable in Montreuil with that need in mind. It was known as well-run to Javert, the reason he stabled his horse there despite the cost. It provided post coaches with fresh horses and rented carriages and services to people who were not wealthy enough, willing, or able to afford a horse or carriage, but still needed to travel on occasion. The owner - called over hastily by a groom when he recognized Madeleine, to personally arrange everything to their liking - had proudly told them that he had agreements in place for fresh replacement teams in every notable post station along the main roads in all of France.

It could not be denied they had made good time. Hopefully, the courier Javert had sent with an update to Paris was traveling rapidly as well. The thought of how M. Chabouillet would react when he got the letter- surely he would think his inspector had gone insane? Javert’s patron had more than once scolded him for being too dour and lacking spontaneity, and this sudden escapade had to appear very strange.

“There is such a thing as thinking too much! Javert, you have to learn to trust your instincts!” Chabouillet had admonished his newest mentee more than once, and not always with fondness. The memory, combined with another jostle, made Javert huff - this could not be what Chabouillet had envisioned as an improvement - and then he tried to find a more comfortable position without waking up Valjean.

With a bit of luck, the dispatch rider would not merely overtake Chabouillet’s response to Javert’s first letter on the road, but would arrive before the reply was even sent. The Secretaire was an efficient man who hated redundancy, and he would prefer to append his response to these latest developments onto his initial chosen course of action regarding the discovery of a criminal guide, surely? Exposing a case of potential child trafficking and exploitation was an undeniable priority. M. Chabouillet was the Alpha Sentinel Prime of Paris and Northern France in addition to his job as a minor official at the prefecture, and Javert was a nobody he had gifted with his patronage out of goodwill. But even Javert, a lowly police officer, should be authorized to act immediately in such a situation without requiring M. Chabouillet to take the time to draft him a written plan.

Javert sighed.

“Those must be some very heavy thoughts,” Valjean murmured and then carefully extricated himself from the way he leaned against the inspector. Either the remnants of sleep or embarrassment made his face glow pink in the light of the oil lamp that illuminated the coach.

“I hope I did not snore?”

“You did, but it was less loud than your running commentary the hours before.” Javert handed him their travel case. “You look like a porcupine and I rescued your hat, it is over there. Make use of your brush. And aren’t you thankful that I insisted on proper preparations and packing necessities instead of rushing off nily-wily?”

“Thank you, I will set myself to rights at once,” came the prompt reply without any sarcasm. “How much longer until we reach Montfermeil?”

Javert pulled out his utilitarian pocket watch and glanced down. “We passed the bridge that crosses the river Marne ten minutes ago; we should arrive within the hour. The feeling of urgency is still there?”

“It has grown worse. I feel like I could reach out and touch her but I am unable to close the gap. You aren’t experiencing anything similar?”

“I know that I am not where I am supposed to be, but I could have picked that up from you. The Eternal Plane has never affected me strongly.” Javert tugged at and stroked his sideburns until they felt like they weren’t rebellious mirrors of Valjean’s curls.

His words earned him a sharp, concerned up and down from Valjean. “How many of your senses have you anchored to me, for you to feel an echo, then?”

“Hearing and sight. Without the others, it is a purely superficial link, no need to fret. I had similar connections to the Conservators when I awakened and needed training.”

Valjean’s expression shuttered to careful neutrality.

“Stay out of sight while I talk to the guards at the city gate, but keep in mind that there are soldiers outside watching. I want to gather more information before confronting the innkeeper,” ordered Javert, and banged his walking stick against the roof to signal that he wanted to give new instructions to their driver.

 

Wonder of wonders, Valjean had followed his orders to the letter and was still waiting where the inspector had left him on his return. Javert heaved himself back into the cab, the fresh glee of being on a hunt and sighting prey making him show his teeth in a rictus of a smile.

He sat down again and the coach began to stutter into motion. “We are in luck. I know two of the gendarmes; I trained with one before we were distributed to other stations, and have met the other before, at the prefecture while I was working in Paris. They will help us, and gladly. Thénardier, the innkeeper of the ‘Sergeant of Waterloo’, appears to be a thorn in their side, but complaints never seem to develop into anything concrete.”

“What is the plan? Surely we aren’t going to go in to confront him directly?” asked Valjean. “And did your colleagues know of Cosette?”

“Never thought that you would want the Police to be helpful, eh?”

The other man grumbled a little bit and crossed his arms in front of his chest like the inspector often did, and it amused Javert. The rest of his information was not as good, however, and made his levity die down.

“Major Chastaine, he leads the police force here, dealing mainly with smuggled goods for the Paris markets, he recalls that the couple who own the inn took in an orphan two or three years ago. ‘Out of pure goodness of their hearts’,” Javert quoted and grimaced.

“Unlikely,” Valjean commented with narrowed eyes and reached for their travel bag so it would not be forgotten. A three-day journey hadn’t necessitated more luggage than that, as both men were frugal in their needs and had packed only enough to maintain good hygiene.

“I recall we already agreed on that, didn’t we? Chastaine hasn’t seen the girl in the last days and says that Thénardier knows every copper’s face far and wide, and is all smiles and charm whenever he sees them. The accusation of minor double-dealing and extortion, even if the victim is a woman of ill repute, has some weight; Chastaine has certainly never seen the girl in a fine blue winter coat.” The particulars of what the major had said about the welfare of Fantine’s daughter he kept to himself, or Valjean might decide to storm the castle, no matter what he had said earlier about caution.

“He is assembling a few men as we speak, but we will have to be the scouts. If this leads to hard evidence of other crimes, related to Cosette or not, well, Thénardier will find himself with cuffs on his wrists in no time.” Javert removed his Sentinel tie pin and wrapped it into his handkerchief for safekeeping before hiding it away.

Valjean gave him another once over. “Then we have to change how you look, at least a little bit more, if we want to throw him off the scent.”

“I beg your pardon?” bristled the inspector and braced himself against the side of the rocking coach cab when it took a corner too sharply. Not only the passengers, seemingly, were eager for this leg of the journey to end.

“Appearance and presentation, they are what matter more than an elaborate disguise. I could have tried to conceal my laborer origins more completely, you know. Pretended that I had been thrown out of my wealthy family and thus was broke and recovering, or something else entirely. I did not.” Valjean waited but when he got no reaction but a puzzled face he reached out and unbuttoned the inspector’s double-breasted uniform jacket and worried the heavy wool cloth between his fingers until the edges were no longer crisp.

“There are so many intricacies only members of a social sphere share, and they would have spotted those dissonances sooner than later and known me for a fraud. A fraud is to be sneered at and observed with caution because they are not trustworthy.”

Next was the dark cravat, impeccably knotted and pristine despite the hours in the coach. Valjean hesitated and sought eye contact before digging his fingers into the folds and mussing them while nibbling at his full lower lip.

“A social climber, on the other hand, one who does not try to intrude on their gatherings unless invited, someone who shows no interest to ingratiate himself with them - those are left alone as oddities or even well-tolerated, especially if they are wealthy.”

“You do know that I am an accomplished spy?” A spy was someone who was one step above the scum he hunted, but spying was nevertheless a needed skill. “I spent three years in Paris learning how to be a good police officer, and sometimes going undercover is what can break a case wide open; it is a useful skill set and I excelled at it.”

Valjean smiled faintly and reached for Javert’s hair. “I don’t doubt you. You would make a very convincing beggar or horse groom if you had to.”

Was that an insult, or a compliment? Javert couldn’t tell.

“But I bet that you were never asked to play a dissolute policeman, it goes against your pride in your profession. Just a strand out of place-”

Javert felt him tug until a strand of black hair was carefully worked loose, and it fell against his cheek in a tangle. He glared at Valjean. His hair was a mess unless firmly tied down and tamed by a tight braid and a ribbon.

“-makes you twitchy and uncomfortable. But a spit-and-polished officer who cares about neatness and regulations is not what we need to show Thénardier. You look tired and off-duty now, see? Just someone escorting a friend home, not interested in things that do not concern you or would make more work for you.”

“You have put a lot of thought into this, it is not natural,” grumbled Javert, but didn’t change anything back. He went a step further and wiped his fingers against the soles of his boots and then rubbed them across the leather, so that neither his gloves nor his boots were completely clean anymore.

They had asked the driver to let them debark two streets away from the address. The quality of their vehicle would stand out and invite scrutiny they could do without.

The inn, with its painted sign, showing a bent-over figure carrying another figure in uniform, and with curling letters above proclaiming it to be the ‘Sergeant of Waterloo’, was a busy place with people coming and going and noise spilling out of the door whenever it opened. Carriages of all kinds, from donkey carts to a two-seated tilbury, waited for their owners in front.

Inspector and convict shared an uneasy look but then firmed their resolve and entered. They were spotted immediately and greeted by the enthusiastic innkeeper, confirming his identity within the first words he spoke. The uniform and tasseled cap were eye-catching, combined with his greasy apron and the reddish bulb of a nose.

“Travelers, welcome! All our rooms but the bridal suite are full!” the smiling swine grandly proclaimed. “But that will be perfect for you lovebirds, eh?” Thénardier looked between the two men standing close to each other, and the one travel bag they shared, and beamed more brightly.

Javert might have felt insulted, but he couldn’t care less about the opinion of such a man, one that lied as he breathed to such a degree that he had no tells left. But playing to Thénardier’s expectations might help them avoid suspicion, so he laid an arm around his companion’s back.

“We will take it.” Valjean stiffened for a second but then leaned into the touch, and held out a coin. Greed made the innkeeper practically drool at the sight of the Louis d'or.

Javert’s opinion of Fantine dropped further, if that was even possible. “How could she have trusted him with her child?” he murmured when Thénardier’s back had turned, as he tried to bamboozle another guest of his tavern. Three years surely were not enough to transform someone who had possibly once appeared to be trustworthy into… this?

Not even Valjean and his tendency to see the best in people seemed to have a good answer to that, he only grimaced. “Do you see a girl that might be Cosette?”

“No. The two girls playing near the kitchen are dark-haired,” he nodded and pointed with a tilt of his head. Allowing them to play out in the open, with one of the serving wenches serving a leering customer two steps away - and by serving, Javert meant ‘draping herself all over the customers with her hands inside the men’s clothes’ - was deplorable, and made his opinion of Thénardier and the kind of establishment he was running sink even lower. With that behavior she could hardly be called a ‘serving maiden’, and it made the food that was being served here, with the chance that she had touched it, look like a crime against decency. But it was clearly par for the course here, Javert thought and winced, with swear words freely being flung about, adding to the noise and the general lack of -well, pretty much anything even a halfway decent inn should offer.

“Should we confront him about the bills?” Valjean looked around, trying to not show his discomfort with the crush of people. There was iron in the way his lips firmed and temper darkened his eyes. He, like Javert, was likely picturing the life an unwanted, defenseless child must have led under the roof of this den of iniquity.

The inspector considered the question and then shook his head “No. It is too crowded here. I do not trust him to not have someone make her disappear out from under our noses if he feels cornered. And it stinks enough and is too noisy for me to parse reliably on short notice.” As much as it pained him to admit to it. “I have felt safer during an ambush by a band of highway robbers.”

Valjean shuffled closer when a pair of drunkards, keeping each other upright, stumbled past him.

Before they could discuss it further Thénardier returned and smiled indulgently at the two customers who seemed to be caught in a world of their own.

“Ah, young love,” he sighed and handed over a big iron key with a wink. “Be sure to eat some of the daily special before retiring to your room, hm? And a tankard of our beer on tap for each of you, on the house, it’s locally brewed and will give you a kick, oh yes. Travel’s a curse, we wouldn’t want any… enthusiasm flagging due to starvation.”

“Thank you. We will keep your suggestions in mind, and we won’t say no to a meal. Nothing too elaborate though.” It took all of Javert’s self-control and training not to grimace in distaste. Maybe that caveat would prevent this character from trying to sell them the most complicated and thus expensive dish. Nothing that was being ferried to and from the kitchen by the waitress looked or smelled like something he wanted to put in his mouth.

“Simple is best, simple is best! Too true, you are a wise man, my friend, not to be caught in the tangles of gluttony. Not all are, but then, I wouldn’t have many customers, eh? And a man has to live,” Thénardier invited them to agree with him, his eyes twinkling. “Sit yourselves down and my lovely wife will make sure that your every need will be met.” He gestured at a woman with brunette hair who was standing among a few patrons, regulars, by the jovial way she interacted with them, while serving beer and laughing at a gangly, pouting young man.

“Come back after your next payday, Silas!” she hollered.

The inn was filled with a rowdy crowd, all of them circling the owner, who directed the ebb and flow of customers in different stages of inebriation with the skill of a master conductor.

The two travelers found enough free space at one of the two long tables to accommodate both of them side by side and in no time at all two plates and two tankards of beer were placed in front of them. Javert grimly eyed the greenware lacking any marks to indicate pint or chopine*, and added to the mental tally of minor violations he was running. No wonder his colleagues were so keen on staging a raid. Thénardier had to have something incriminating on a local magistrate or he would have been fined and imprisoned much sooner.

“We need a distraction,” murmured Javert, his lips nearly brushing the shell of Valjean’s right ear. There was no other way to be understood without shouting or superior hearing in this bedlam of noise.

A nod. “Easy to accomplish.” Valjean casually leaned backward on the bench at just the right moment to knock into a patron making their way through the press, Silas, Javert had heard him called a moment ago, and much too young for this tavern. Javert watched the bright smile and the teasing way the con first apologized for making the lad stumble, and then watched as Valjean beckoned, and when the lad bent down, opened his hand a little bit to furtively offer a coin, then added a suggestion that made the boy brighten in glee and eagerly dart off with his prize.

“Valjean.” Javert shook his head, not sure if he should be outraged or amused.

The other man’s lips twitched. “Wait for it,” he said, and pretended to eat from the travesty masquerading as a sausage on his plate, then with the help of sleight of hand made a good portion of it disappear to the floor where a dog promptly ran off with it.

Javert’s portion lay untouched for now but he played up the part of the infatuated companion, too occupied to eat, by staring at Valjean while trying to keep track of what Thénardier was doing.

The full plate nevertheless attracted the lady of the house, and she sashayed over and leaned over between the two strangers to display her décolleté, allowing them, if they wanted, to freely look down the space between her breasts. “Another sausage, monsieur, if this one is not to your taste? Or has it been served cold?” Her eyes wandered down and up suggestively. “Too cold? I will scold the lazy maid. You have to be hungry after your day on the road!”

“I fear I have to warm up first to taste anything,” Javert demurred and leaned forward on his elbows to fake exhaustion and to get away from the woman. Marie Liné had equipped them at their outset with a hamper full of fresh bread, meat pies and cheese for their journey complemented by a jug full of cider to wash it down. He felt no need and no desire to eat something right now.

She giggled and clapped them heartily on their backs before leaving in favor of another guest. Before she could attempt to reach the next table, however, a barrage of yellow liquid deluged from the gallery that lined the upper level - dirty yellowish water, Javert’s nose told him, and thankfully not anything worse. The boy had great aim, combined with the easy target of Madame Thénardier’s ample assets. He had more than earned his reward with the resulting mess.

The harridan screeched and tried to wipe off the watered-down beer, liberally splattering it on everyone around her. The front hemline of her dress had barely been high enough to conceal her nipples and was now sagging with wetness, the thin fichu she had used as a nod to decency was now transparent. Everyone but Valjean and Javert seemed to be transfixed by the spectacle. Laughter and catcalls rose, and after her initial surprise, instead of retreating to right her clothes, she laughed and posed.

They used the commotion to rise and slink into the hallway leading deeper into the house, with Valjean making a production out of brushing off his coat as if to remove spills in case anyone was watching them.

“Where to first?” Valjean gestured questioningly to the kitchen and then to the narrow service staircase leading upstairs and then offered his arm when Javert hesitated.

The inn was playing havoc with his control. Javet grudgingly accepted the help and pressed his fingertips to Valjean’s covered wrist. The thin barrier of only one layer of leather allowed enough contact to drown out the press of noise and stink of humanity with Valjean’s unique and soothing presence.

He took a deep breath. After a day and a half of travel, the man managed to somehow still smell pleasantly of coffee, curd soap, hints of sandalwood and fresh grass.

Javert closed his eyes and concentrated. The upstairs bedrooms were either empty or occupied, as was the attic. A guest ambled past them, blabbering something about the outhouse, and showed no interest in the two figures hiding in the shadows.

“There is only one heartbeat out of place and fast enough to belong to a child,” Javert pressed out between his gritted teeth. “Very faint and underground?”

“Underground. A root cellar? The entrance could be anywhere outside along the walls or further away!”

“No, the sounds I can detect emerge somewhere here, inside. Let’s search for a door, it can’t be far and everyone is occupied upfront applauding Madame Thénardier. We won’t get a better opportunity.”

He kept their connection and dragged the other man behind him by the hand and down the hallway. The inn was a cautionary tale of how to best attract rats, both the human and the animal sort, with casks and pieces of furniture having been placed haphazardly; dirt covering everything that wasn’t out in the open on display for the customers.

“What a pigsty.” Valjean echoed Javert’s thoughts unknowingly. “There, look, that must be the entrance to the wine cellar.”

“She is in there.” Javert had not been as invested in the girl’s fate as the Guide, but now he wanted nothing more than to tear the barrier down to reach her. Her heart was beating erratically, clearly in distress.

There was a padlock on the bar that kept the massive door closed. In contrast to nearly everything else in this house, it was shiny, well maintained and new.

“There has to be an ax somewhere here,” hissed Javert, but before he could either go and force that horrible innkeeper to hand over the key or anything else that would be helpful, common sense wrestled down his howling instincts. Because he did not need a key or an ax, did he? He raised an eyebrow and pointedly stared at the lock and then at his con.

Valjean shook his head and crouched down to get a better look, then removed something from the inner pocket of his vest. “Give me a minute.”

Javert observed but did not comment, too intent on concentrating on the sound of a small heart speeding up, instead of lockpicks being skillfully manipulated inside a lock.

“I will confiscate those forthwith,” sighed the police officer, but without any of his usual verve.

“There, it is open.” The bar and door were no real obstacles for Valjean either, and soon the men cautiously entered the space behind. It was pitch black inside, with no lamp or candle burning, and the air was cold.

“Cosette?” Valjean called out. “Your mother sent us.”

The only thing that answered was a faint shuffling.

“Let me fetch a lantern, I’ve seen one unlit on a hook near the door. You might be able to function in there with my help, but I can’t,” said Valjean.

More light did not help them at first. This might once have been a cellar for casks of wine and racks of bottles, and the entrance led at a steep angle down. The sides were littered with old luggage and crates, which left not enough space to go down side by side. Javert took the lead.

Before they descended, Javert pocketed the padlock and Valjean positioned the wooden bar on the first step in such a way that anyone not knowing it was there would stumble and make noise.

On any other day, Javert would have used the opportunity to lecture Valjean about his criminal tendencies.

“Cosette?” Valjean tried again and they slowly descended.

The end of the tunnel widened into a small cavern hewn out of stone, with a low ceiling. It was hard to tell how big the cellar was because most of it seemed to be crammed full. Lines upon lines of old wine casks were stacked as far up as possible and in rows that made it impossible to reach the ones further back without removing the ones in front first. On the left side of the aisle rags and old coats were piled up high and the smell of old sweat and worse made Javert gag.

And on the right side a small figure was cowering between two crates, staring up at the two men, with eyes the same color as her mother’s.

“We don’t mean you any harm.” Valjean crouched down to appear less threatening and smiled at the little one. It was a forced smile and Javert agreed, he wanted to shout his anger out loud because the child was heartbreakingly tiny and so scared.

Much tinier than she should be, and clothed in rags. She was facing them with her knees pulled up to her chest, the arms wrapped around them to keep from shivering. Bruises and dirt liberally dotted her skin, and her hair, far from the shiny locks her mother had raved about, was a tangled mess.

But the detail that made Javert more angry and sad than he had ever been before in his life was the sleeping, nearly translucent lion cub he could see curled around her thin shoulders.

She peered up at them, hope beginning to bloom. “You are the men I have dreamed about, aren’t you?”

TBC

 

*chopine is the name for a half a pint in France.

Warning: implied, non-explicit gore.

Both smaller and I had a lot of fun with this chapter. We both love to loathe the Thénardiers.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



In his years patrolling the streets, Javert had seen many more urchins than well-behaved children. The latter tended to be restricted to the insides of their homes and gardens, and grew under the supervision of their parents and families in the better parts of the town. They did not require his attention unless the household needed the services of the police, and he had never been forced to interact with them in a meaningful way.



Kidnappings and demands for ransom, those he had worked on, in and outside of Paris, but they were a rare occurrence in his caseload. In Montreuil-sur-Mer only the desperate and the stupid would challenge a Sentinel in his own, small territory; and in Paris he had not been senior enough yet to be involved in more than the simplest cases. When children grew up beyond single digit age, they started to cause more genuine trouble because they all seemed to be of the firm belief that rules did not apply to them.



But street urchins? They were as plentiful as feral cats and always up to no good, ready to snatch something to eat off carts and from unattended pockets and baskets. Neither street lamps, nor anything that was not nailed down or unbreakable were safe from their malicious mischief, and they lied as they breathed. Javert had never been required to try and soothe one or treat it kindly. Nor had he wanted to!



Valjean did not look like he knew what he should be doing either, but he made a valiant attempt. “You dreamed of us? That is good. We are going to take you to your mother, she is waiting for you.”



Despite her surprisingly insightful little question, Cosette was still cautious, and when Javert shifted his weight she hastily shuffled back further into the shadows. “Maman is with the angels. Madam said she doesn't want me because I am a bad girl.” She chewed on her smudged fingers.



“No, you are a good girl. A very good girl,” Valjean croaked. He sounded like someone was strangling him.



Such a rough voice did nothing to make Cosette trust them and she ducked further down, and raised her arms to shield her head.



“We have to hurry,” cautioned Javert. The innkeeper was the sort of coward that would be excellent at riling up drunken friends and then hiding behind them to enjoy someone getting beat up. The waiting gendarmes might not be fast enough to reach Javert and Valjean in time if the situation got out of hand. Shooting Thénardier and his wife was tempting, but more violence would merely help Javert feel better, while doing nothing to solve their problems. That did not keep him from wishful fantasies. He had vowed never to touch a whip again when he left Toulon’s prison and climbed into the Imperiale to Paris, but he would make an exception for ‘Madam’.



Before they could make matters worse with their bumbling, two other spirit animals appeared. One was known to Javert, because he belonged to him. Though only gifted people could see him, he rarely showed himself, and that was to the best, as a black wolf nearly twice as big as a regular one, with eyes the same light gray as his Sentinel’s, tended to cause panic and not calm things down.



The other was another wolf, but of a regular size, with blindingly white fur. 



Instead of beginning to sob and cry for help, which would be reasonable when encountering wolves, Cosette peeked out between her fingers and then started to giggle weakly and beam at the two beasts.



“See? We have our own… friends with us.” Javert doubted that a five-year-old would know anything about the Spiritual Plane.



“They feel so warm,” she said without touching them. “What are their names? I called mine Zinnia because I want to have a sister with that name, like ‘Ponine has Azelma. Or at least a doll of my own I could name. And she’s better than any doll, but, she never moves and does not wake up. Is she sick? Did I do something wrong?”



“This place makes her sick, not anything you have done.” Javert cleared his throat and, as softly as he knew how to, continued. “Thank you for sharing her name with us, that is something precious and private.”



Cosette tilted her head and stroked her lion cub. “Huh?”



Javert had forgotten to tone his vocabulary down to her level of understanding. “Her name is something that belongs to you and her alone, and should only be shared with people you trust.”



“You have never told his name to anyone?” She pointed at the giant black wolf pressed low to the ground with his nose nearly touching her knees. How she knew which spirit belonged to which man was alarming, because the girl seemed entirely sure and not guessing at all.



“Isn’t he lonely if he has only you as a friend?” she asked.



Valjean tried to tackle this question, gesturing at his wolf, sitting at attention slightly behind Javert’s. “They are not regular animals, and as long as we are not lonely, they aren’t either. They are special. I have never shared his name, but I will tell you because he likes you. He showed himself to you, hm? I named him Zéphyr, after a mild wind. He is very swift on his feet and when he runs, his fur flows like leaves in a tree when it is windy. It helps me remember nice summer days.” 




“Are you very special as well? Because you haven’t told me your own names, and you know mine.”



Oh, they were special, all right. The men shared a chagrined look. Special idiots! No wonder the girl thought them strange.



“I am Sentinel Inspector Javert, and this is-” the words died in his mouth because answering her was not as easy as he had first thought.



“Jean. A lot of children call me Père Madeleine where I live; you can do so too.” The former convict provided the missing information without missing a beat. “And I am a Gardien, a Guide. Like you. That is what having a spirit animal means.”



Javert decided that the other man had a better chance of charming her, and used the time to try and come to terms with the fact that he was dealing with two Guides with predators as their soul mirrors. Most guides had herbivores. He did not doubt Valjean’s assessment of her nature; if anyone was able to tell, it was likely he.



“Madam does not like Sentinels. Or Guides. She says they are-” she scrunched up her nose and shaped the words once silently before saying them aloud “-interfering freaks of nature who should mind their own business.”



“That does not surprise me, that she would say something like that. It is a mean thing to say.” Valjean had now settled into the perfect soothing cadence, deep and smooth.



“She is mean.” Cosette bobbed her tiny head up and down and scowled. “She always says I am lying, even if Éponine is the one to have done it.” She hesitated and tilted her head in the opposite direction, like a curious bird. “‘Specially if ‘Ponine has done it,” she mused.



“Your mother sent us, and you shouldn’t have to live with someone cruel. Will you come home with us? Zinnia will be welcome as well, but she is too young to be here for long. It makes her tired and that is why she sleeps,” Valjean cajoled.



Cosette still wasn’t fully convinced. If it wouldn’t risk pulling her gifts fully awake, Javert would have already snatched her up and run for safety by now. Every second they remained made his skin itch.



“You don’t think I’m a liar? I woke up from a bad dream, and Zinnia was suddenly there and then ‘Ponine told Madame that I bragged that I have an invisible cat! I didn’t brag. And she said that I’m crazy, and Madame screamed at me and told Monsieur that I am bad and need to be dealt with,” she babbled, and her slight lisp got more pronounced the faster she spoke.



“No, remember, I can see her plain as day and I know you are not lying.” Valjean smiled and sat down in front of the girl, uncaring of dust or worse dirtying his trousers. “Shall I describe how she looks? It is always good to verify, ah, to make sure. Her fur is a dark gold color, and her paws look too big for her and are darker than the rest. Just now the tip of her tail is curled around your neck and ends right above your collarbone. Like, here.” And he pointed at the corresponding spot on his own body.



It was clear that the little girl wanted to take that last leap of faith - she had begun to hope when she saw them, but it needed a little push. And Valjean had just provided it.



Cosette nodded slowly and her alertness waned, tears began to fall and her lids grew heavier with every second. She rocked herself from side to side, humming. Thankfully it wasn’t the same melody her mother had sung back in Montreuil.



The young guide was obviously on the edge of falling unconscious due to strain. Zinnia grew fainter until she was fully invisible, and it was the signal for the wolves to get up and silently stand guard further back from the child. Valjean’s was in front of the wine caskets, and Javert’s took position near the opening that led out of the cavern.



Valjean took it as a sign that he was allowed to touch Cosette now. He hurriedly picked her up and cradled her against his chest before standing up. His glance darted from his spirit animal to the hulking caskets the wolf was fixated on with sorrowful eyes.



Both men stood frozen for a moment and shivered from something more than the cold of the cellar.



“The girl?” Javert asked grimly and surveyed the cavern uneasily. They weren’t done, it seemed.



“Deeply asleep,” Valjean answered tersely.



Javert’s mouth felt dry, as if not enough cool water existed to wash away the sand between his teeth. 



“Why aren’t half of Paris’ bonded pairs breaking down the front door to get to her?” Valjean was visibly restraining himself for the sake of Cosette. He fumbled his coat around the slight figure in his arms.



“Because the Eternal Plane has already provided her with what she needs, even if we do not know the particulars of our assigned task. If we fail, then we will be punished in the afterlife, and someone else will be sent in our stead. At least that is the theory the priests like to preach. So, no one else will be alerted. Especially if someone very strong is already on the task.” The next unhappy glare was directed at the white wolf. “There are few guides on Earth which are said to have a deeper connection to the Eternal than wolf guides. How could you neglect to tell me that you have a wolf for a spirit animal, Valjean, that is not a minor detail!”



Not even someone willfully blind would be able to stay unaware of the significance.



The menace was not listening. “Do you think they believed her about Zinnia?” 



“Why are you asking?” Javert would not let the matter lie, but for now, there were other things to worry about.



Valjean was also licking his lips and was swallowing convulsively. “Maybe you should carry her, there is no chance of me projecting something on accident if you do it.”



“Out of the question, Valjean!” No, Javert needed his hands free. He reached for the small loaded pistol he had concealed in a deep inner coat pocket.



“You said that the inherent protection of young children is faulty, that the Pride does not react to natural causes of danger, only violent ones. Retribution is meted out to people who are caught bringing harm to children, yes, but-” Valjean hesitated again, his eyes dark and wide. “How long do you think she was locked in here? Hours, days?”



Javert processed what his instincts as a police officer, not the Sentinel ones, were trying to tell him. He soon started to get a glimpse of the road Valjean’s thoughts must be leading him down, and followed it to a grisly conclusion.



“I’d guess days. Without food and little water. They expected her to perish and had no compunctions or fear that they would be caught because they’ve done something like this before. Maybe not exactly the same circumstances but similar enough, and they believe that they will get away with it. Again,” Javert concluded.



Valjean’s concentration was now fully on the wooden barrels and he had lost all color to his face. “You have to call your policemen down here. As soon as possible. Nobody deserves to end like this and be forgotten.”



Wine barrels were designed to be sealed and not expose their contents to air, so the spirits of the liquors stored inside would not evaporate.



“Valjean, some wolf guides are known to be able to see beyond the veil. Please don’t tell me…”



Valjean finally wrenched his attention back to the inspector. “We will never tell Cosette the truth about this room, never! Promise me, Javert, on everything you hold dear.”



Javert ignored the informality and the implication that they would be involved in her life going forward. Every time he looked at the white wolf, practically glowing in the dark so it was impossible to ignore, his heart constricted. But this was an easy promise to make at least. “You need not ask this of me, I would never do so. Maybe this is why Zinnia came to her, to distract her and shield her from the horror. Come, we need to get out of here.”



Javert’s wolf, by comparison, was a creature of darkness and blended with the shadows. A deep growl made both adults stare at him.



Damn Valjean and his inability to follow the rules! - he should be able to see but not hear another Gardien’s spirit animal.



“Someone is approaching. And we are unable to retreat unseen and will be too exposed down here,” Javert warned. He pressed himself against the wall but it was of no use. The cavern was littered with debris but no substantial cover other than those caskets.



The beam propped at the top of the cellar steps crashed to the floor and loud, obscene curses drifted down.



Javert next considered the whistle he had been given to signal for intervention, but discarded the thought after shaking his head. He suspected that the gendarmes would not hear it if Javert blew it this deep underground. Maybe the tunnel would act to amplify the sound, but the sound of a police whistle would also give up the game completely for no guaranteed gain, and might spur the villains into immediate, deadly action. It was safer to keep the item out of sight, but at the ready.



“Hey! This isn’t a bridal suite, unless you have some mighty peculiar tastes. You can’t just go wherever you want!” It was Thénardier himself, an army pistol held like an old friend in one of his hands, and at least two of his drinking companions at his back. One of them was a hulking brute of a man carrying an enormous cudgel; the view of the second was partly blocked. It was impossible to do a precise threat assessment but chances were high that the other thug was armed as well. And by the shrill complaints at the far back, Madame had joined this ambush as well. 



The narrowness of the corridor would restrict possible avenues of attack for the scoundrels as well as the defenders, but the enemy would be able to retreat to seek cover if needed; Valjean and Javert couldn’t.



Cosette, when Javert checked on her grimly, was out like a light. Which was good for her in a way. She did not need more fuel for nightmares, but she currently resembled an inanimate rag doll more than a living being, and would not be able to run to safety on her own.



“We saw the entrance to the wine cellar, and you were so generous with the beer, we did not think you would mind. Everyone was busy and we’d pay for the drinks later, no problem,” said Valjean. Typical. The prospect of Valjean using money to placate that… 

pustule on France’s nether regions 

was infuriating, but it was the only nonviolent language Thénardier understood, so Javert kept his fury reined in.



He was confident that Valjean would keep his position behind Javert’s left shoulder, thus covering the Sentinel’s main gauche side with enough room left for them both to maneuver a little bit despite the tight quarters. With only one hand free, or maybe especially with only one hand free given his past, Valjean would prove anyone wrong who underestimated him.



To think that Javert was happy to have 

Jean le Criq

 at his back and wishing he had given him a knife or at least a sturdy walking stick before they entered the inn! - his past self would have apoplexy.



Thénardier was peering at them closely but he let the pistol sink down. “That’s no way to treat another man’s property, rewarding his generosity by going behind his back! Why, a more suspicious man would think that you planned to rob him!”



Valjean, Javert saw out of the corner of his eye, confidently raised an eyebrow and looked down his nose at the innkeeper. “We left our satchel upstairs, how would we conceal any loot?” The way he formed every vowel would do any middle-class merchant proud. “But yes, I have to confess-”



Thénardier leaned forward full of glee. 



“-that we’ve heard about this inn and about the treasure you only share with your best customers and closest confidants! Can you blame a fellow for taking the opportunity when it presented itself? But we can pay, don’t worry!”



“I see how it is. Why are you carrying Odette?” Thénardier still smelled a rat.




“Cosette!”

 His wife hissed from the back.



“I don’t know what you are trying to imply! We found her down here and this is no place for a little girl. She doesn’t look well,” Javert mildly pointed out.



Thénardier swatted aside the implied accusation like it was nothing but a pesky fly. “Must have snuck down here to avoid her chores. She is a useless pest, I tell you, a burden on our good intentions. Useless, yes. Always sick, always lazy.”



Madam had shoved her way between the two henchmen to the front and added to the tale of woe. “Since the day we took her in she has caused nothing but trouble. Tearing her clothes, refusing to eat, and refusing to help with the household!” She sniffled, sighed, and smiled sickly sweet in turn.



“It seems,” Valjean slowly said, “that you are very busy people and have your hands full with your inn and the two girls I saw playing upstairs. Me, I have always wanted a daughter but was never lucky enough to be blessed with one. You do not seem to want this girl and freely admit that she is a burden; I will take her off your hands and everyone will be content. How about that?”



“How much is - what did you call her, a pest - worth to you? It would cost you less, by your own words, to let her go with us,” Javert joined in and sneered. Oh yes, he knew how a man like Thénardier thought, and would take a shortcut to lessen the amount of cajoling and wheedling and aim straight for the cockroaches' mercenary nature. “A sou? Maybe less than the price of a bottle of cheap wine?”



“But we love her, despite her faults, and how can we give her away to a stranger!” Madam exclaimed. “And surely a man of the Law would never imply that he wants to buy a girl?” she simpered.



“As a man of the Law, it is my business to step in when I see a custody agreement for an orphan that does not suit the caregivers or the underage charge. My friend would love to take care of her, you complain of the difficulties she causes you. It seems as if there is an obvious solution to be reached. And I will look the other way, there is no harm.” 



That was fudging the truth more than Javert was comfortable with, but a spy should have no compunctions about lying to scum. 



The innkeepers squirmed and whispered with each other, and then Thénadier sent his helpers away with assurances that it had been nothing more than a misunderstanding, they should go back to the main room and would be handed a free drink for their support, unneeded as it had been, wasn’t it fortunate?



The two brutes looked like they would protest for a second because even an idiot would be able to suss out that something profitable was going to go down. And their leader did not seem to want to share the loot. But they relented and retreated upstairs, the lure of more beer winning out.



Thénardier, Javert was sure, was someone who would be able to judge the worth of someone’s clothes and accessories down to the last sou with one glance, and he was currently licking his lips as if he could already taste success. Valjean in his guise as Madeleine might not follow the latest fashions but his clothes were of good quality and in an excellent state of repair.



“You have to understand, my good man, that in my position I have met a lot of scoundrels, some of them policemen no less. Why, the stories I could tell! You are both strangers, and I only have your word that you do not mean our treasure harm,” Thénardier sighed soulfully.



“That’s right!” Madam Thénardier chimed in. “And the expenses we’ve had! The doctor bills alone! They nearly ruined us. If you could prove that you would have nothing to gain, by giving us more than she would be worth to the wrong sort…”



“Not another word.” Valjean moved to Javert’s left side, and pulled out a purse with his free hand. “Are two thousand francs enough? I don’t have more on my person.” And he should have had a lot less than that, but for once Javert did not plan to complain.



“Cosette is more precious than rubies, than pearls!” both scoundrels howled in concert but tried to beat each other to the dangling purse at the same time.



“This will settle any debt,” Javert pressed out between numb lips.



“Maybe add your pocket watch as a bonus, a man like you must like the finer things in life?” Thénardier smiled indulgently at the leather pouch, pulled out a stack of bank notes that were folded and secured with a pin, and stroked them without an ounce of shame.



“I don’t have one.” Valjean pressed the girl closer and stepped around the innkeepers.



Javert flung his own cheap and unremarkable timepiece to the disgusting pair’s feet, wordlessly took the rear guard position, and ignored the happy celebration they left behind. He only managed to do so without combusting spontaneously with anger because he had to trust that those cockroaches would be crushed as soon as he reached the waiting backup. And that they would neither keep the money, nor their freedom.



The fresh evening air had never before smelled this sweet after the oppressing miasma inside the inn.



“Inspector! We were growing concerned but did not hear a signal so we waited,” Chastaine greeted them when they hurried into a side street and out of direct line of sight from the ‘Sergeant of Waterloo’.


“Call for more men. Everyone on duty, and request more soldiers as well if you can. Detain anyone leaving the premises discreetly until you are ready to storm the house. Surround that building and then arrest everyone still inside,” Javert demanded, clenching and unclenching his fists, finally able to show more than polite indifference and slight disdain.


“What for?” The major could see how furious his colleague was.



“Everything in the book short of high treason, and that might apply as well!” If they were to find old enemy communiqués or a hidden English spy Javert would not be surprised. The innkeepers had abused a pré guide to the point of nearly forcing her awake, but that was one infraction Javert could not lay out aloud to non-Gardiens. He pulled out his cravat pin and jammed it back into its usual place, then brushed the irritating loose lock of hair back behind one ear and ceased any hint of a slouch. 



“Is my word enough incentive to enter this inn and search it from top to bottom? Everything should be evident to a blind man, beginning and ending with half a dozen corpses or more hidden in the cellar. This is your city, your mess, deal with it! I will take my charges to the nearest 

decent

 inn, where you can find me if you want a formal report.”



“Merde,” murmured one of the wide-eyed young gendarmes, and Javert did not reprimand him but stormed away, one hand securely on Valjean’s arm and every sense checking the shadows for threats.



“We left our satchel,” Valjean tiredly remarked.



“I don’t care!” Javert exclaimed and stomped forward. 




TBC


If you wonder why Javert needed to be pointed at the victims, then keep in mind that Javert is not bonded, thus less strong when using his senses; and I’ve seen a documentary about murder in the Middle Ages. Sour wine is said to be an excellent way to not have corpses stink up everything.

Big, big Thank you to smaller, who made this so much better to read.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



Major Chastaine had the presence of mind to immediately send a young recruit after them - the boy still looked like he was playing dress-up with his father’s uniform - to recommend a small but comfortable and clean hotel to them and show them the way. It saved them the effort of seeking out and asking their hired groom for a recommendation.



“Are there really corpses down there? In barrels?!? How did they get them in there? I mean, the openings on some of those big kegs are wide enough for it, certainly, but Thénardier is such a scrawny scarecrow and-” Unfortunately their escort did not know when to shut up, and showed an astonishing resemblance to a terrier yapping at its master’s heels. “He must have chopped them up!” the boy suggested with ghoulish relish and ignored that his audience was less than enthusiastic about his commentary.



Valjean gagged, that mental image likely too much for even a former convict’s hardened resilience.



“Shut up!” Javert would never admit it, but he wasn’t far behind showing the same reaction. “Never underestimate the creativity of the criminal element. But this is not a topic fit to be discussed in the presence of a child. Or the open street.”



“She is asleep,” the young man carelessly dismissed the reprimand and rambled on. “And maybe she helped him? Wouldn’t be surprised, very strange girl, that, always thought so.”



Yes, Cosette was indeed nearly comatose but Javert wondered about the lack of common sense in the new generation of gendarmes. If he hadn’t met some of Chastaine’s other men when he'd introduced himself earlier in the day, he would have despaired. “A five-year-old waif lugging around body parts, who is now being personally protected by a Sentinel. That sounds absolutely likely. You know what, I don’t want to hear you spout any more nonsense.”



“But!” 



Thankfully they had reached their destination, a two-story house with chalked walls and wood trim contrasting with the unvarnished brick walls of its neighbors. There was a bench beside the front door that could offer weary travelers rest once spring returned, and a simple sign listing offered services with their prices in a corresponding column. It was a very welcome sight, as was the proprietress standing beside the open door, cleaning the threshold with a broom.



“I will have some recommendations for your commander for future training and deployment. Inspecting garbage heaps all day, every day, comes to mind. Your brain would be in good company. Off with you!” Javert barked and pointed in the direction they had come from.



The boy ran.



“Do not take him seriously. Dennis’ mother hopes that military discipline will knock some sense into him soon.” The woman was decked out in mourning colors and she wrung her hands after abandoning the broom against the nearest wall, her attention mainly on the girl in Valjean’s arms. Or what little was visible of her, bundled against the sharp wind within the former con’s coat. “Oh, Cosette. The poor dear. Come in, come in. Have the police decided to finally do something about those Thénardiers? Will she be given to someone else?” she asked Javert after contemplating his uniform.



“The situation is… more complicated than that.” Valjean bowed slightly and awkwardly hitched his precious burden higher up afterward. “We were led to believe that you would be able to accommodate us for the night in your establishment while everything is sorted out?”



His charming smile made the woman blush. “But of course! I am Madam Cartier, welcome to my hotel. You are in luck, I have a vacancy but - would one room suffice? It is a busy time of the year, with Christmas approaching. With Paris a stone’s throw away many merchants prefer to stay overnight here instead of paying a hand and a foot for less in the big city. But ah, I am rambling, aren’t I? What else might you need? Besides a lot of water to get the little one clean, for once!”



“One room is preferred. Is there a Gardien-certified shop you could recommend where we might be able to buy clothes for her on short notice?”* Javert asked and closed the door firmly when everyone was inside the hallway. Sometimes being a Sentinel Inspector had its uses, at least he was being given the benefit of the doubt that he had no unsavory reasons for renting that room in the company he was in.



“And some necessities for us as well. Our travel bag is still at the ‘Sergeant of Waterloo’,” Valjean felt the need to explain their lack of luggage.



“Then you will never get it back, and that is not mere professional rivalry talking, I assure you!” She ushered them further in and removed a key from the board behind a little desk, all the while intently peering at the sleeping Cosette, then sighed and wrung her hands, the key clutched between.



“I’ve tried to give her old clothes my children grew out of, and do not want for their own, not that they were anything special but they’d have been miles better than what she’s always worn. A warm hat as well. But the next day Thénardier would say that she had ruined them playing. As if those scoundrels ever let her play.”



“Your good intentions are to your credit, Madam, but-” Javert grew impatient.



“You are right, here I stand and babble instead of showing you to your room and getting to work! I need to tell the maid to warm the water. And a basin, you’ll need a basin and towels. Oh my.” She hurried down the corridor and up the stairs, and used the key to open the first door on the left.



Javert went in first, after holding Valjean back, and surveyed the room. It was medium-sized and simply furnished but clean. There was only one bed but it would fit both men, and the settee would be comfortable enough for the girl. He doubted that she had ever rested on something as nice.



“There’s freshly chopped wood for the iron stove in the rack and additional blankets in the wardrobe,” the woman flustered, and had switched her attention fully from the policeman to the well-dressed gentleman.



Instead of continuing to charm the proprietress with his sweet awkward gentleman routine, the one Valjean regularly used in Montreuil to make the matrons sigh, he ignored her and silently shrugged out of his coat one-armed, and used it as a barrier between the clean duvet on the bed and the grubby child.



“If you would be so kind to ask one of your staff to show me the way to the store?” The demand was packaged as a polite question by Javert. “I will be ready to depart in a few minutes.”



“But of course! On second thought, I will come with you personally and help select what you need,” Cartier offered before faltering and looking up at Javert. “If that pleases you. Forgive me my forwardness, I did not want to presume.”



“Think nothing of it. Your help is appreciated, we can indeed use those supplies,” replied Javert, a little impatient.



She curtsied and left.



Valjean was trying to untangle Cosette’s hair so it wouldn’t hang in her face, without waking her. “How could that pair have treated her like that?”



“How you of all possible people can be constantly surprised by how wretched human beings can be, I will never understand,” said Javert.



Valjean hung his head, his broad shoulders slumped. He haltingly answered, “I have to believe that everyone deserves a chance at redemption. That there is always 

hope

 for redemption. But a man like Thénardier, he makes me doubt it is possible. There was something completely broken about him, like he was sucking in any light and twisting it up until nothing was left. And he infects everyone and everything he touches with this wretched, twisted darkness.”



That was a very appropriate if poetic description. Javert agreed, but he was able to sum it up a lot more succinctly. “He is scum. The world will be a better place without him.”



“It doesn’t mean that I am happy about his likely fate. The courts will sentence him to be executed.”



Javert snorted. “They had better! And I am not gleeful about his fate either, if that is what you want to imply. Just relieved that he will not cause more harm. And he is the sort that would thrive even in the worst prison.”



“No, no Javert, that is not what I thought at all! It is self-centered, I know, but if Thénardier is beyond hope then-”



“Don’t finish that sentence. The horrible cellar must have scrambled your brains. Are you honestly comparing your boneheaded behavior at Toulon with 

that

-”



Valjean flinched slightly when hearing the name of the prison.



“-or your theft and breaking in before to mass murder? Don’t be foolish. My fear is always that someone who breaks the law, even for minor reasons, is to be watched closely, and not trusted easily or at all, because they will do so again and escalate their offenses,” Javert lectured and pulled Valjean fully upright from where he was still bent over the girl. Really, Valjean and his blasted tendency to always blow things out of perspective! 



“If that was in you, if you could sink that low, you would already have done so. You've had enough provocation. If anything-” he faltered.



“Yes?” Valjean made no move to free himself but his eyes darted back and forth between the hand on his arm and the inspector’s face.



“You are the antithesis of Thénardier, as… criminals go.” Javert hastily let go and straightened his vest and coat, uncomfortable with the conversation.



“That means a lot to me, coming from you.” 



“Well, yes.”Javert cleared his throat. “I should hurry and buy what we need before the shops close. Do you have 

more

 money squirreled away on your person or do I have to fetch what we hid in the carriage? The driver said he would use the garrison stable, I'll have to inform him of the delay in departure anyway.”



“No, only a few coins are left.”



“Your definition of ‘a few coins’ is likely something I would disagree with as well,” Javert drily teased. 



He was saved from further embarrassing himself by a knock on the door, signaling that the proprietess had returned and was politely waiting for him to join her for their shopping spree.



“Libra.” He made sure not to look away from Valjean but he could feel his wolf separate from the shadows and become visible. “Keep them safe.” And he left the room. 



Only once he had closed the door did it occur to Javert that he trusted Valejan to stay there and not abscond with the girl as soon as his back was turned. Not that the Sentinel would not be able to find him again, alone or with the support of more skilled Gardien, but he hadn’t even warned the former con to 'stay put - or else'. 



Good Lord, what was happening to him?



….


 


When Javert returned, the oversized wolf spirit was stretched out in front of the bed like a barbarian’s prized rug. His tail was swishing back and forth, ruining the image a little bit. Despite his size, Libra never seemed to take up any

 actual 

room and this dichotomy always made Javert’s head hurt.



The little girl was sleeping on the settee and had been scrubbed rosy. Or maybe it was because she was in the middle of a pile of blankets with only her head peeking out and a fire roaring in the stove.



“Did you leave any blankets for the other sleepers?” He put his purchases on a small table that had been added to the room while he was away. The two armchairs that had stood near the window now flanked it and in one of them Valjean was sitting, reading a book.



Javert tilted his head to get a better view of its title. “Hm, ‘The Travels of Marco Polo.”



“I found it stuffed between the cushions when I sat down. Not before it poked me, though.” A slight, involuntary wriggle denoted where. “Not that its former owner is likely to miss it. Pages are missing but I have a copy at home so I don’t mind the gaps, I can fill them from memory. That answers the question I was about to ask though: is your sight acting up, because there’s a gorgeous quilt on the bed! But I thought you’d be away longer?”



“Why? The list wasn’t that long and our new hostess pointed out the items to me so it went even faster. ” 



The older man was sitting there in his shirt-sleeves, socks and his trousers, having removed the other layers. Javert quirked an eyebrow and removed his great coat but hesitated before letting his uniform jacket follow suit.



Now not only the girl was pink in the face. 



“After the day we've had we don’t need to stand on formality, do we? But more importantly, how does she fare?” They had gone to all that trouble to rescue her, it would be a shame to have the girl wither away now that she was safe.



Valjean watched him put the garments on hangers, and waited until he had Javert’s full attention again. “Not that it lasted long, but she woke up and was fully coherent for a bit when we bathed her, and ate some soup. I was relieved that she was able to keep everything down! The water had to be changed twice before it ran clear.” He bit his lip, a tell Javert was learning to spot whenever the man did not know how to say something.



“Yes?” Javert prompted. “What did you discover?”



“She’s frightfully thin, but beyond a few scars and scabs that aren’t too unusual for an active child, I’d guess, and some minor bruises, there was nothing worse. Some of them looked like marks from being dragged forcefully and bumping into things, a ring of black bruises around one upper arm, for example. Not that those don’t make me furious, but I was dreading what I might find.”



That was far better than Javert had expected. “Hm, I would be surprised if she hasn’t developed good skills in avoiding drawing attention, or she would have perished months ago. For someone fast and small there are often places to hide out from the worst, or things to say that divert an angry adult.”



The way Valjean was suddenly paying close attention, combined with a worried wrinkling of his nose, was disconcerting. 



It took Javert a second to guess why. He rolled his eyes heavenward. “You are a worrywart. Discard whatever fancy sentimentality you’ve dreamed up. I do

 not

 see myself in Cosette. Finding people when they don’t want to be found, does that sound like something I would know nothing about?”



Startled laughter filled the room but was strangled with a fast, guilty glance at Cosette. But she slept on, blissfully unaware.



“It will take time to earn her trust,” Valjean sighed.



Personally, Javert thought that the little one would at first be too astonished by suddenly having a full belly and warm clothes - and a bear of a man hovering over her like a nanny - to be bothered with much else for a bit. They would see what her character was made of after the novelty wore off.



“But we can talk more about the girl later,” continued Valjean. “I asked the maid to air and brush my outer clothes, it’s why I am sitting here like this. She will come back later for yours as well, we are to put them outside the door in a pile. Wearing something that has spent more than five minutes steeped in the air of 

that

 place - My senses are average, not like yours, but-” A violent shudder shook his frame. “It’s superstition and not logical, 

non

? A waste. But I will burn everything to the last sock when we are home!” 



The highhandedness of Valjean categorically including Javert’s clothes in the arrangements should have put him off, but instead, he was grateful. If Javert had the funds to replace the items, he would do so as well, maybe even his beloved great coat. 



“I expected you to be away for longer because I thought you would go back and make sure that nobody escaped,” Valjean changed the topic.
That wasn’t a fallacious assumption. Any other day Javert would have been there to see the Thénardiers clapped in chains. The sting operation would likely go on deep into the night though, and the thought of leaving Valjean and Cosette vulnerable - no, that would not do. 



“I will request an update from Major Chastaine to complement my official report to the prefecture, but, as I said, this is not my city and not my case! If I never see those criminals again it will be too soon and my duties lie elsewhere. But enough about the Thénardiers.



“As you can see, I bought fresh shirts for both of us, in addition to clothes for the girl. Enough to tide us over for a while. I can’t leave without signing some statements and that might delay us for a few hours.” Or days, depending on the major and the aftermath of the arrests.



Valjean beamed at Javert and then the purchases. An honest, open smile, as if Javert was offering him a treasure instead of something he could have bought in better quality himself back in Montreuil.



“Nothing extravagant, I assure you, and I expect to be reimbursed,” Javert hastened to make clear. While the inspector never left his apartment without hiding a small amount of money for emergencies on his person, it was not a big enough sum to cover much more than what he had bought for himself. The journey was financed by Valjean, since it had been he insisting on it in the first place.



“Well, of course? If I had my thoughts together and not been such a scatterbrain I would have asked if you would do so. Fortunately, at least one of us has his wits together! But I have been productive in the meantime beyond Cosette and maidservice, and inquired about a late repast, at least. If your stomach isn’t too queasy?”



His stomach answered for him by rumbling loudly.



Valjean promptly put away his book and sprung up from his armchair with enviable energy. “I will call for the maid! According to her, there is always a hearty stew kept warm for boarders who arrive late in the day. And the rest of the soup, if you prefer that? Cosette barely managed a small bowl before she fell back asleep, there is a lot left.”



“The stew will do, thank you.”



Javert was still sorting out the purchases into three piles when Valjean returned, after exchanging murmured words with someone outside the door, carefully balancing two covered bowls, cutlery, and cups on a tray, with a bottle pinned between his right arm and body. The meal was put on the table for later.



And of course, the man had to immediately spot the single item Javert had bought that had no practical purpose, a small doll made of fabric. Another blinding smile was sent Javert’s way and the inspector huffed and tugged the lopsided bow that decorated the poppet’s hair into a more pleasing symmetry before placing the doll back on the pile of children’s clothes.



“Bah, I knew you would buy one if you’d been there. The shop had a small selection of porcelain dolls as well, with very fine clothes, but I did not like how those glass eyes stared back as if they belong to dead fish!” Which was very true, aside from that he would not have been able to afford one of them.



Valjean nodded, still beaming and casually inspecting the pile that was meant for him, denoted as such by a slip of paper on top with the expenses listed per item.



“It looks much softer than cold porcelain, and the face stitched on is darling. Cosette will love it.” The fool refrained from commenting on every item but brushed his fingertips over the nightshirt before turning to the table and the stew.



“Since you are the knowledgeable one when it comes to Gardien questions. Do you think Zinnia will… stay asleep? And for how long?” Valjean asked.



Javert sat down, took a bite, chewed, and swallowed while formulating an answer. “I am not trained for evaluations. And due to my unbonded status and temperament entirely unsuited for such endeavors anyway, a high-ranked pair will have to examine her to determine if she will awaken fully.”



The inspector wasn’t usually circumspect when naming things, so he continued when he saw how unsatisfying his answer had been for Valjean. “Maybe she will go dormant because of the trauma. Maybe her soul mirror will have to recuperate and heal before she appears again, maybe Cosette will awaken properly when it is her time or when she meets a Sentinel who is a possible match.”



Valjean put down his spoon, he had played with it more than used it. “Will they think less of her if she turns out to slip into complete dormancy?”



“Don’t overreact, will you? No need to get overprotective of your chick. I wondered the same and thought about it and to me, it comes down to the following. Of course, it would be a disappointment for the pride to lose the potential of such a strong Guide. She is young and strong, as evidenced by her lioness. There’s time for her aplenty to recuperate, especially if she feels secure and loved.”



Javert observed closely as the desperate glint in Valjean's eyes receded some. He did not need the man to act true to form and do something hasty.



“Who is to say that she would have ever awakened without the Thénardiers? If she had had an ordinary childhood in a middle-class household?” He grimaced. “That did not come out right. What I meant is that Cosette might have stayed pré all her life because she wouldn’t have been needed.”



After thinking about it Valjean nodded and resumed devouring his meal. “Maybe Zinnia manifested for the sole reason of acting as comfort?”



“Or defense. If Thénardier or his wife had tried to beat Cosette severely you can bet that Zinnia would have mauled them, despite her age and size!” Libra rumbled agreement from where he was resting and keeping an eye on Cosette.



Javert waited until most of the stew was gone and they were sipping their light apple cider more than spooning food into their mouths.



“Now. Apropos. Valjean, you can’t keep such important details to yourself. I was serious about my need to know about your spirit animal.” Javert took up the thread of an earlier conversation.



“Why does it matter? You have a wolf as well,” shrugged the other man.



“Don’t play the fool. Predators are nothing unusual for a Sentinel, but they are quite rare for Guides. Prime predators like a lioness or a wolf? And your ability to see ghosts? It will positively influence your trial because it elevates your status.” By a significant amount!



Instead of seeing the advantages and acting relieved, Valjean rolled his cup this way and that and stared into it as if it held divine answers at its bottom. “Being unusual, standing out, is rarely a good thing. And, you make my… quirks sound extraordinary and useful while they are not. I do not see ghosts or communicate with souls, like it is said of the strongest Guides. Have you ever looked too long into the sun and when you look away - the fuzzy, black shapes that appear? It is a little bit like that. Afterimages. They are… just there, staring at nothing. Not saying anything or divulging secrets. I only ever see them when Zéphir appears and 

allows

 it, for want of a better explanation.”



“Which isn’t a bad thing, for you. Seeing those things everywhere and demanding attention - that would drive anyone insane.” It was not something to envy or wish for.



“Hm,” hummed the Guide and sipped his drink. “Sometimes, rarely, they were useful. They kept me sane.”



“I cannot imagine how,” Javert grumbled and his mood soured. “I will have to write another letter to M. Chabouillet. He needs to be, once again, made aware of the newest development.”



“If it wouldn’t confound the situation I would offer to add my witness account.”



“Please don’t. My letter will sound ridiculous enough to warrant me an evaluation myself; and a demotion.” Javert tried to mentally compose the first few paragraphs and sighed. “But we proved that we weren’t chasing mirages and, I reiterate, it will help your case.” 



“Forgive me for not being too hopeful. The system has never been kind to me.”



Languidly Javert stretched out his legs and massaged the bridge of his nose, once again feeling pounding pain accumulate. Valjean had reasons to be skeptical but he was accustomed to regular human justice, not Societé regulations. It was a pity that he had never lived as part of a pride, and had to rely on Javert for information. 



There were politics and expectations at play, Javert could not deny it and did not much like it normally. Shouldn’t the rules apply to everyone equally? But that was naive. There was no denying it, wolf guides were rare. Sought after. To be coddled and coveted. The Societé would insist that Valjean’s thievery had been the youthful folly of a caring uncle, and the escape attempts the desperate instincts of a trapped Guide. 



“If you don’t do something publicly idiotic, they will do their best to fold you into the hierarchy and introduce you to every strong unbonded Sentinel that is available and willing.” And they would flock around the unbonded Guide, uncaring about his past. Like moths to flames, blinded and dazzled by Valjean’s potential.



Yes, Javert could see it play out in his mind and scowled, rubbing harder.



“I already told you once that this is not who I am. Reduced to my status as a Guide, it would feel like another prison of sorts because I could never met their expectations. And, forgive me the question, but why would I need 

another 

Sentinel?” Valjean sat up fully, shaking off the lull of a full belly.



“Because I am not an appropriate bondmate and you should not settle for me,” Javert pressed out between his teeth, annoyed that the other man forced him to spell it out. “The Societé will hold a gathering for you with eligible Sentinels to choose from.”



”That seems… excessively unhelpful and a waste of time and resources. I have Cosette to think of, we both know her mother will not be able to care for her when we arrive home, and most likely never; I will not give her up if I can help it. Additionally, I have to worry about my future, the future of my factory and my workers. I do not like this sudden elevation of status in your esteem, it seems false. It reminds me of the way you bowed to Madeleine and other electors. And I always heard bonding was a personal choice and not forced?”



“Correct.”



“Then will you be at that Gathering?”



“If I am allowed and if you want me to be.”



Valjean nodded decisively and picked up his spoon again, a contemplative furrow deepening on his forehead.



The evening was still young and they spent the next hour in companionable silence, Valjean with his book and Javert with his private notes and observations, the official report and a first sketch of the dreaded letter to his patron. He finally straightened and stretched to work the kinks out of his muscles, which had bunched up and stiffened.



The letter would be best finished after a night of sleep and some distance.



“Do you think she will sleep through the night?” Valjean closed his book, throwing another anxious glance at the little Guide.



Good Lord, as if Javert was suddenly an expert on children. Still, he listened to her breathing. It was even and deep. If nothing else Javert would know the minute it changed. “Her sleep is natural now and she needs the rest. We should go to bed as well.”



“I will sleep on the floor.”



That nonsense made Javert huff and scowl. His spirit animal had faded out sometime during the last hour, not needed anymore as a guard, and Valjean was now standing in the place Libra had occupied. “No, the bed is easily big enough for us both. Unless there is another reason for your reluctance to share it? I know that you snore but you aren’t worse than some colleagues I have bunked with.”



“Hm, then no. If that does not bother you - if I have a nightmare that might turn out to be very disruptive and I’d rather not-”



“I know better than to startle you. I don’t want to get your fist in my face. And it isn’t as if my sleep doesn’t tend to be fretful on occasion.”



“Then it is decided.” A polite nod and Valjean began to prepare the bed by folding back the duvet and then untying the blue twine around the two folded sheets that had been placed underneath. The corner on the topmost was embroidered with the letters 

SG

 for Societé des Gardiens. Sleepers would be able to slip between two layers of guaranteed clean sheets and be comfortable. The practice was widespread and appreciated by more than Gardien.



“I still have to finish my report in case Chastaine arrives before morning, that will take a few minutes more. I should add a copy to send alongside the letter tomorrow.”



Valjean did not turn around and his voice was low, but loud enough for Javert to hear him. “That letter… You do seem to be aggravated. Sometimes words don’t seem to suffice to express something complicated, no matter how diligently one searches for the right ones, 

non

? Very well, maybe- hm. But Cosette-”



“Deeply asleep, you don’t need to ask again, really Valjean,” Javert answered, once again, and watched, puzzled and not able to make heads or tails out of those jumbled words, as Valjean ambled across the room and retrieved a folded paravent from the gap between the armoire and wall and placed it as a room divider and screen in front of the settee. And then he placed the washbasin on its stand on the other side.



The room was illuminated by the fire behind the grate of the oven, and the candle Javert was using for his work; it had served Valjean’s reading as well. The second candle in a lantern had been lit while Javert had been out shopping and hung on a hook above the headboard of the bed.



Instead of retreating into the shadows to change into the nightshirt Valjean fetched that lantern and placed it on the floor beside the little metal rack.



Concentrating on his letter Javert tried to concentrate but the sound of rustling fabric and rigidly regulated breathing drew his attention and his eyes.



The raised chin and frank stare directed back at Javert, the way Valjean stood - everything was a mixture of bold challenge and silent plea. There was nothing salacious about the way Valjean removed his clothes and then methodically cleaned the parts of his body he revealed. The movements were practiced and economical, Javert could easily picture him having a similar routine at home. Lather, swipe and rub, wash the cloth out in the basin, then wring the cloth and repeat, until sweat and grime were gone. Dunk it back into the water. Repeat.



He wasn’t posturing but Valjean always turned his body in a way that allowed the silently watching man to see the area he was cleaning. This was for Javert.



With every piece of clothing that he removed, this man was baring his life’s story written on his body. Valjean had warned him. He was a simple tree pruner, a liar, a cheat, a thief, an industrialist, and from the way he looked at little Cosette, a father soon, Council permitting, and above all someone who wanted to help others and live a full life. To share it with someone who understood.




Do you like what you see? Can you accept who I am?




If he wanted to, Javert could turn away without giving offense. Close his eyes, and leave the room. Neither of them was shackled in place and Valjean would never demand that he stay.



Valjean had finished with his upper body and undid his trousers before removing them at the same time as the thin drawers he had on underneath.



Shame welled up, sudden and nearly crippling. Javert had thought Valjean’s back and his scars to be a source of conflicted feelings? There was no privacy to be had for prisoners. Nudity was not a sign of intimacy and trust but of being unworthy, unclean. No polite bow and a retreat to find a chamber pot. The guards would only have laughed at the prisoner who asked and at the same time mocked them for being uncultured beasts.



Javert had seen this body exposed, the 

casaque** 

removed so it would not tear

, 

had seen the fine dark hair on Valjean’s lower legs glued to his shins with piss when prisoner 24601 had been sentenced to the stockade for a full day and a half.



“Javert? Maybe this was not such a good idea,” Valjean whispered, and the only sound that remained was the drip, drip, drip of water droplets falling back into the basin.



Javert shook his head to dislodge those thoughts. He would not reduce Valjean to those memories either, his courage deserved better. 



“No, keep going. I think I… am beginning to understand.”



They shared a long look and then Valjean inclined his head and dipped the cloth back down into the basin.








TBC 


* One reason why so few historic examples of middle and lower class garments have survived to this day is not necessarily that they were of poorer quality. They were made to last as long as possible, but they were seen as reusable resources.As far as I know most clothes at the time (and for the middle and lower classes) were handsewn by someone in the household because it was cheaper to buy cloth and thread instead of hiring a tailor or buying ready made. There were, for more affluent customers, tailors that had semi finished stuff that was then adjusted to a specific person, tailors who catered to less wealthy clients who took clothing that was in good repair (or could be reused) in payment or sold repaired garments. Kind of like our second hand shops. Most children’s garments were either handed down to smaller kids or adjusted to fit the growing child. I would guess, for this universe, that nicer children’s clothes would also find their way back to shops if there was no younger household member to receive them and if the quality and cleanliness are high enough, the shop gets a Gardien seal of approval. The innkeeper here (and Javert) act on the understanding that they are in search of such ‘second hand’ clothes - because of time constraints, Cosette needs them immediately, and on an inspector’s budget.

**casaque: name for the shirt/wrap prisoners wore. It had to be easily removed around chains, and was red-colored.