Title: The Mob AU That I Have Always Wanted to Write (Plus Some Murder)
Work ID: 43182684
Author: Lupin_and_Tonks_Forever
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Padmé Amidala/Anakin Skywalker/Original Female Character(s), Queenie Goldstein/Original Character(s), Original Percival Graves/Newt Scamander, Javert/Jean Valjean, Tina Goldstein/Original Female Character(s), Tara Maclay/Willow Rosenberg, Angel/Spike (BtVS), Rupert Giles/Wesley Wyndam-Pryce, Drusilla (BtVS)/Original Female Character(s)
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Mob, Alternate Universe - Everyone Lives/Nobody Dies, Everyone Is Gay, Alternate Universe - Cults, Swearing, Alternate Universe - Modern with Magic
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 19/19

Summary:
This all stemmed from my need to write a mob au and an inside joke. As well as the fact that Anakin deserved to have a not fucked up life. The title says it all. The Les Mis, Hamilton, and Buffy are basically cameos, the main parts is Star Wars and Fantastic Beasts, as well as some original characters. Very basically, what would happen if you had a small town added two mobs and threw in a serial killer? You get this fic.

Work text:

Mana groaned and rolled over when her phone started to ring shrillly. "What time is it?" Anakin asked sleepily.

"Too early." Padmé sighed. "I guess I'll check on the kids while you get that."

"Do I have to?" Mana pouted.

"Well, I'll put it this way, if your phone wakes up the twins then you're the one that gets to deal with them." Padmé stated.

"Ok, ok, I got the point." Mana sighed and then rolled over and answered her phone as Padmé left to go check on Luke and Leia.

"There's another one." Tierney said the moment that Mana picked up.

"Are you fucking kidding me?" Mana groaned and attempted to lever herself up from the bed, but she didn't succeed and just kind of flopped back on to the bed.

Anakin smiled fondly at Mana as she struggled and after a minute he moved to help his girlfriend. But it wasn't that easy as he wasn't left handed and he had taken off his prosthetic hand for bed the night before. Anakin had met Padmé when he was a child, after the Jedi "found" him. In reality the Jedi didn't find him as much as they kidnapped him. He didn't realize it until later, and Padmé was a large part of that realization, but it was very clear that the Jedi were a cult. The Jedi believed in what they called the Force. An all powerful, all knowing thing that connected everything.

They believed that if they meditated hard enough that eventually they would be able to harness it. And they believed that a part of what made it easier was that they couldn't have emotional attachments which was why they generally kidnapped infants or very young children. The Jedi found that it was far easier to indoctrinate young children. But that all went out the window when Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan met Anakin. Anakin was born with the ability to negate friction and telekinesis. It wasn't the Force but that's what it looked like to the Jedi. And that was all the confirmation that they needed that he was their messiah.

So they took Anakin which, in one respect, was probably for the best as his mother was having a hard time supporting the both of them. As far as she knew Anakin ran away and she never tried to find him because she thought that he was better off wherever he was. That was not to say that she didn't love him, she did, but she was a working girl and she didn't even know who Anakin's father was. It was never the life she wanted for herself or her son. She tried to make things better and get a "real" job but it never worked; the street corners always seemed to call her back.

And well, that's why she didn't put up much of a fuss trying to find out where Anakin went. After the Jedi took Anakin they graciously allowed him to remain in school. Or at least that's what they told him. He was 9 when they found him and he had already been attending a school, it was sporadic attendance, but it would have been more suspicious if he withdrew from that school and didn't enroll in another one. And that's where Anakin first met Padmé. She was a freshman at the high school and was doing an older buddy sort of thing at Anakin's school and they were paired together.

But of course inevitably Padmé graduated and she moved away and Anakin was left alone. When he was a teenager he lost his right hand almost to the elbow in a freak accident. Or at least that's what the Jedi told everyone. In reality it was a punishment. As Anakin grew older he had a hard time not forming attachments and he was in danger of turning to the "dark side" which was what the Jedi said those that left, the Sith, gave in to. The Jedi believed that if they didn't control their emotions, any emotion, that they would be tempted by the evil of the dark side.

As Anakin grew up he was very curious about his parents and where he came from. But the Jedi didn't like that very much and no matter how many times they reminded him that he had to be careful not to form attachments, especially after he met Padmé, he didn't listen. So instead the Jedi cut off his hand as a reminder of the pain lost attachments could cause and how it would then lead to the dark side.

It had the opposite effect, instead of warning him away from attachments it only made him more firm in his decision, though he tried to hide it better. And then 10 years later Padmé came back after getting her law degree. She had originally gone to law school to become a lawyer so that she could help Anakin finally get out of the cult. But before she returned she had spent a little time establishing herself before she returned. And by the time that she did return it was 10 years later and Anakin's feelings for her had only grown.

It wasn't long after they reconnected that they got married in secret. Padmé had wanted to tell the Jedi and get Anakin the fuck out of there, but Anakin begged her not to. He knew that everything that they had ever told him was wrong but they were the only family that he had. And as far as he knew his mother gave him up. But he wasn't quite sure that that was the case because it wasn't like the Jedi had ever told him the complete truth.

The two of them had been keeping their relationship a secret for 3 years when Padmé got pregnant. It was then that Padmé was finally able to convince Anakin to leave and never look back. While Anakin was never sure he could leave the cult for himself he knew that he would never want his own children growing up in the same environment he did. Anakin never believed the Jedi when they told him he could use the Force. From the little he could remember about his mother he knew that he got his powers from his father, a man that he never knew. Anakin also knew that there was a good chance that any child of his would inherit his powers and if that was the case he would not, could not, let them grow up like he did.

While they were making plans to leave, Anakin snuck out of the Jedi compound one night to try and find his mother. There was a part of him that never believed the lies the Jedi had told him about his mother. He followed his murky memory to a house he quickly discovered that his mother had died some years ago from HIV/AIDS. Anakin was devastated when he heard the news. The whole trip back to Padmé's apartment was a blur and the next clear memory he had of that night was collapsing into Padmé's arms unable to contain his sobs any longer.

By that point Padmé was already several months pregnant but they didn't have everything in order yet so they didn't leave town until a couple of months later. They had found a small town a few states over. One night they packed everything they had scrounged up in Padmé's car and they never looked back. They were about a day into the drive when Padmé started having contractions. Anakin wanted to stop but Padmé convinced him to keep going. She wanted to be as far away as possible before she gave birth.

But when they were just outside of the town her contractions got worse and they had to pull over. It was at that point that they met Mana and her right and left hands. Newt had the ability to sense magical auras and track them down. He had felt Anakin at the town line and he told his boyfriend Percival Graves who then told Theseus who then called Mana and the three of them headed to the town line. They had arrived just as Padmé delivered Luke and Leia. It was pretty clear to Mana that they were running from something or someone and she offered them her guest room until they got on their feet. That was three years ago and Anakin and Padmé and the twins and Mana had been together since then.

It was a little rocky at the beginning when Mana told them that she was the head of one of the mobs in town seeing as Anakin and Padmé were running from a cult. But it quickly became clear to them that Mana and her mob was nothing like the Jedi. Eventually Mana introduced Padmé to Queenie Goldstein, who was a very gifted lawyer and the wife of Tierney Payne; the head of the other mob in town; and Queenie helped Padmé get a job as a lawyer for CPS with her. And Anakin decided that he wanted to be a house husband, so while his wife and girlfriend were at work he stayed home with Luke and Leia.

Tierney ran their mob a little differently from Mana. Mana was a Necromancer and everyone in her mob had some sort of power or magic and they did magical favors for people. She ran it out of a private detective agency where Percival and Theseus worked with her. On the other hand Tierney's mob's motto was basically be gay, do crime. Tierney and Queenie owned a foster house for queer youth. They had adopted three children Chastity, Credence, and Modesty, who had been living with their very religious and abusive aunt, and the couple were fostering a lot more.

Most if not all of Tierney's mob were queer. Queenie worked as a lawyer to get the queer children that were kicked out by their families placed with them. And Tina worked at Mana's private detective agency to dig up dirt on the asshole parents and fuck with them. Most of Tierney's mob activities involved going after asshole parents and family members the rest of it was just being very gay and doing crime. Occasionally Tierney would work with Mana because they could talk to ghosts and Queenie could read minds. Which was exactly what Tierney was calling about.

"Unfortunately." Tierney replied to Mana’s question.

"Ok, text me the address. I'll meet you there." Mana sighed and hung up. A moment later her phone dinged with a text and Padmé re-entered their bedroom.

"What is it?" Padmé asked.

"There's been another murder." Mana sighed and got off the bed to dig through the closet for something to wear.

"That's the second one this month." Padmé sighed sadly.

"Actually it's 5 if you count the three elderly people that died." Mana said and emerged from the closet dressed in what were unmistakably Anakin's clothes.

"Are those my clothes?" Anakin asked incredulously.

"Ani, that's not really the point." Padmé rolled her eyes fondly at him. "Are you sure that they are all connected? You never resurrected the elderly people, right?"

"Tierney and I are sure. I didn't resurrect the first three people because it looked like they died of natural causes. But Tierney talked to their ghosts and they all described the same masked man injecting them with something. But by the time we figured that out it was too late to resurrect them; they had been dead for too long. Well anyway I'm off to resurrect the dead." Mana said cheerily and pecked Anakin and Padmé on the lips.

"Be careful." Padmé said. Mana nodded seriously and left.

"Have fun storming the castle!" Anakin called after Mana.

"You're a nerd." Padmé teased Anakin.

"But you love me anyway." Anakin replied.

"I do." Padmé kissed him. "Now come on, I want to get as much sleep as possible before the twins wake up."

I have to say that I am surprised that I got some views on the first chapter. I think that a lot of the time my plots are too convoluted and are really only enjoyed by myself. But you know, read my stuff if you want. Live your life. There's more actual plot in this chapter. Also remember that inside joke I was telling you about? Well it makes an appearance, see if you can spot it.

"Jesus fucking Christ? This is a fucking mess." Mana sighed as she examined the very bloody alley that Tierney said to meet at. Percival and Theseus along with Tierney were already there staring at the body, a young woman, surrounded by blood.

"Do we have any ideas who did this?" Percival asked.

"Well, Percy," Tierney drawled.

"Don't call me Percy." Percival told them for what must have been the 100th time. But just like every other time Tierney just ignored him.

"Yeah, I'm the only one allowed to call him Percy." Mana added as she crouched down and started drawing the required ritual sigils around the body. Occasionally she dipped her fingers in one of the not yet dry pools of blood because she needed more to complete the circle.

"And my brother!" Theseus exclaimed. "But of course he does not know that mobs exist."

"Because that's what you and Percy tell him all the time." Mana rolled her eyes. She thought it was a little ridiculous but it wasn't like they were actually hurting anyone so she didn't really care.

"Newt is my baby brother and I need to protect him!" Theseus declared dramatically.

"You do realize that he is literally surrounded by mob members right?" Mana paused in her sigil drawing for a moment to turn around and fix Theseus with a look. "You; his brother; are literally my left hand, Percy; his boyfriend; is my right hand, Tina; his best friend; is in Tierney's mob and the sister of their wife, and he works with Larissa who is married to Tina. Granted she's not actually apart of either mob but she does know who we all are."

"Why does Percival get to be your right hand?" Theseus pouted.

Mana sighed heavily, that was not the first time that Theseus brought that up. She knew that he didn't care, but she also knew that the only reason why he said anything was because he was being a little shit. "We've been over this, Percy is also a lawyer which is helpful on occasion. And you know, I don't have to have a left hand." She said pointedly.

"Ok, ok." Theseus waved his hands frantically. "Shutting up now."

"As I was saying," Percival cleared his throat. "Do we have any idea who did this yet?"

"No, not yet. According to Sheila, right? Sheila?" Tierney glanced to their left, presumably where Sheila's ghost was. Not that any of them could see her, besides Tierney. "According to Sheila all she saw was some masked man come up to her and he just started stabbing her."

"He didn't say anything beforehand?" Theseus asked.

Tierney looked to their left again and listened for a moment and then answered Theseus. "Sheila said he never said a word. He just walked up to her and shoved her into the alley and then started attacking her. She said that when she died she came to find me because she had heard rumors that I could talk to ghosts."

"Ok, I'm ready." Mana said and stood up. "Ok, let's get on with it." Percival said. He never liked watching Mana work. Raising the dead took a lot out of her and the whole process was kind of creepy to watch. First there was the chanting, and then there was a bunch of creepy whispers and a lot of black mist, and then all of a sudden whoever was being resurrected would shoot up and all of their wounds; if they had any; healed. Mana started chanting and it wasn't long after that the whispers started and the black mist appeared. And then minutes later Sheila sat bolt upright gasping and clutching her chest.

"Ok, Sheila right? You can go home now, just don't say anything to the police, ok? Or to your family. Got it?" Mana told her once her gasps had subsided.

"Why not? That guy fucking stabbed me to death! The police need to know so that they can catch the fucker!" Sheila exclaimed angrily.

"I know, I know. You know who we are right?" Mana said calmly and when Sheila she continued. "Then you know what we can do. And whoever this fucker is has no idea what the fuck he is getting himself into. This is our town and we'll be damned if we let a serial killer run around. Look, I promise we will catch this guy. But we also want to fuck with him a little. Don't worry if he goes after you again I'll bring you back, ok? Just like anyone else he goes after. He's only doing this for attention so it's only fair that he doesn't get any. So all I need you to do is act like nothing happened and go about your life. It's going to really fuck with him, and eventually he'll make a mistake and we'll find the asshole."

"You promise you'll get him?" Sheila asked hesitantly.

"You have my word." Mana nodded and handed Sheila a slip of paper. "Also, I made a discord for all of the serial killer's victims. You know, kind of like a support group? Tierney and I are on there and so are Percy, Theseus, and Tina so if any of you remember something you can send it to us on there. That way you aren't seen around town associating with the mob. There's only one other person on there right now but I'm sure you'll get along."

"Do you want one of us to walk you home?" Tierney offered.

"Uhh, yeah." Sheila nodded shakily. "It's just down the block. How am I supposed to explain my bloody clothes?"

"You went for a late night walk and fell into the dumpster outside the butcher shop?" Theseus suggested.

"You know what, I'll figure something out." Sheila shook her head and stood up.

"Percy, can you-" Mana said and then gasped and fell over. Luckily for her Percival was close enough and caught her before she hit the ground.

"Oh my god! Is she ok?" Sheila gasped.

"Yeah, yeah, I'm fine." Mana said dismissively as Percival helped her sit not in a blood pool.

"We both know that you're not fine. You should have sat down right after you finished the ritual." Percival scolded her.

"I'm just tired. Percy, we can talk about this later, can you walk her home?" Mana asked.

"Fine." Percival frowned and stood up to do what Mana told him. And then without another word he gently led Sheila away. He was only gone for about 10 minutes when he returned. "She's home safe."

"Good. Now if only we could find this asshole." Mana sighed tiredly.

"He's bound to slip up some time." Tierney offered.

"I know, but unfortunately that means that he's going to kill more people first." Mana pointed out.

"This is true." Tierney nodded. "But it's not like we're going to find anything else out tonight."

"You're right. We better get out of here." Mana said and struggled to stand, but eventually she managed it.

"You're not driving like this." Percival told her.

"I'm fine." Mana insisted.

"Let me drive you home." Percival said. "And then Padmé or Anakin can drive me back here and I can pick up my car. I parked around the block so if someone happens by it won't be too suspicious. Unless you want me to call one of them now?"

"No, no, it's fine. Just drive me home." Mana sighed in defeat.

"What should we do about all of the blood? The last one wasn't nearly this messy." Theseus asked.

"We might as well just leave it. Who's on the case? Madge Brooks?" Mana asked.

"Yeah, but from what my contacts in the police department have said they don't really have an open investigation. They just didn't want Brooks messing up their important active investigations so they 'gave' her the 'satanic sacrifice' to keep her out of the way. And well her father is the Chief so it's not like they can kick her off of the force." Theseus explained.

"They do know that I don't do satanic rituals right?" Mana asked incredulously.

"For the most part everyone does, you know except the out of towners, and the new recruits and the Chief. But you know, as long as we don't cause too much trouble the cops leave us, all of us, alone. But as far as I know Brooks does not know that and so now she is invested in 'solving' the crime." Theseus shrugged.

"What do they think happened to the body?" Tierney asked. Their mob didn't really deal with the police as often as Mana's mob did. They were mostly focused on helping queer youth and fucking with the asshole parents that kicked them out or otherwise. And for the most part that flew under the cops' radar, and what didn't was all completely legal because that's how Queenie and Tina made sure to pull it off.

"They don't know, and that's part of the reason why they are leaving it alone. Brooks thinks that they bodies some how dissolved into the ground. Or something." Theseus said.

"Well ok then." Tierney said.

"Text me if something else comes up." Mana told Tierney as Percival helped her stand. "We really shouldn't stay any longer."

"Ok." Tierney nodded. And Percival and Mana, Tierney, and Theseus went their separate ways.

After Percival dropped Mana and her car off at her house Padmé drove him back to his car. "Do you want to talk about it?" She asked Mana when she returned and the three of them went back up to bed.

"Not really." Mana groaned and rolled over into Anakin in the hopes that he would be the big spoon.

"Percival said that you almost collapsed, again." Padmé said pointedly.

"He is a traitor." Mana said and shoved her face into Anakin's chest when he finally gave into her pouting and wrapped his good arm around her.

"You need to be more careful." Padmé chided her girlfriend.

"Padmé's right, you should be more careful Mana." Anakin added.

"Aww, not you too. I thought we were the reckless ones in this relationship." Mana pouted.

"I'm not really sure if that's something you should be proud of." Padmé pointed out.

"Maybe. Look, Percy already lectured me on the way home. Can we just sleep now?" Mana sighed.

"What do you say Ani?" Padmé asked.

"Sleep is good. I like sleep." Anakin said. "But you know what I don't like?"

"Oh, I don't know? What could it possibly be?" Padmé asked Mana playfully.

"Sand. I don't like sand." Anakin stated.

"Yes Ani, we are all aware of your distaste for sand." Padmé replied.

"I just wanted to make sure you knew." Anakin nodded.

"Can we sleep now?" Mana asked sleepily. Her eyes were already fluttering shut.

"Of course." Anakin murmured and pulled Mana closer. And on her other side Padmé curled up and threw her arm around Mana. And then within minutes the three of them were asleep.

Well, here it is, another chapter. As I'm sure you'll see why, Madge has a very special place in my heart. This chapter is a little shorter but I hope you all enjoy this chapter.

"Anything yet?" Mana asked Percival and Theseus the next day when she met them at the private detective agency that they used as a front for their mob.

"Nothing yet." Percival replied. "It's not like we really have anything to go on anyway. Besides that he's tall and a man. And Theseus and I already looked into the people new to town so we know that it's someone who has lived here for a while."

"That doesn't really help us very much." Mana sighed.

"Well I mean, I hate to say it, but the only thing that would really help us now is more bodies." Theseus pointed out.

"Or you know, if we had Newt help us. He is a particularly good finder." Mana suggested.

"No!" Percival and Theseus exclaimed immediately.

"My baby brother is too good and too pure to be involved with the mob!" Theseus continued dramatically.

"Theseus I don't know why you're acting like we routinely put hits on people and murder them." Mana rolled her eyes and sat down at her desk. "And Newt is already sort of involved or do you not remember that he is literally dating Percy, or that he is your brother?"

"That's different though." Theseus protested.

"Not really." Mana replied.

"Anakin and Padmé aren't a part of the mob but you guys have been dating for years now." He pointed out.

"I am aware." Mana said dryly. "But unlike Newt I don't actually tell them that mobs don't exist right before I go out to do some mob stuff. But that's not the point. Right now we have to figure out how to catch this serial killer and murder him."

"Didn't you just say that we're not the type of mob that kills people?" Percival reminded her.

"I said 'routinely' murder, not that we didn't do it at all. This guy is really pissing me off. Who does he think he is that he can just kill people in my town and not run it by me first?" Mana huffed.

"That would be what we call a serial killer." Percival snarked.

"Gee, thanks Percy. I wasn't quite sure." Mana snorted. "All I'm saying is that the sooner we hunt this guy down and take care of him, the better."

Percival opened his mouth to reply but there was a knock on the door. "We'll finish this later." Mana told them and opened the door to find Detective Madge Brooks on the other side. "Ahh Detective Brooks, what can I do for you?"

"Do you mind if I came inside and asked you some questions?" Madge asked, sounding somewhat professional for once.

"Can I ask what this is all about?" Percival asked and joined Mana at the door.

"There was a staged car accident last night. Not too far from here." Madge replied.

"A car accident?" Mana asked in confusion. "Why would we know anything about a car accident?"

"Oh, no. It wasn't a car accident. It looked like someone painted the town red. You know? Someone's swimming with the fishes now. They're pushing daisies. There's some real serious wet work that went down last night. You get what I'm laying down?" Madge babbled.

"You mean someone was murdered last night?" Mana asked. "Who was it?"

"That's the thing. There was no body. So we don't know." Madge shrugged as if it wasn't a huge deal that they didn't have a body.

"Well, in that case, you know what they say. No body, no crime." Percival shrugged and attempted to close the door but Madge lunged forward clumsily and ended up falling inside the threshold in a heap. Mana and Percival leapt back to avoid Madge taking them down with her.

"That might be." Madge popped up and brushed her clothes off as if nothing had happened. "But there was a lot of blood and it looked like a ritual sacrifice or something."

"So what? You thought that I had something to do with it?" Mana snorted and crossed her arms.

"That's what I'm here to find out." Madge nodded enthusiastically.

"So I, what? Took the body with me? Why would I do that?" Mana rolled her eyes.

"I have heard some things..." Madge trailed off.

"I'm sure you have." Mana scoffed. "But make no mistake, I don't make a habit of putting people in graves. And frankly you have no body, no evidence of a crime, so you have no reason to be asking all these questions. Come back when you get some actual evidence."

"But-" Madge protested.

"This interview is over." Percival stated.

"If you could even call it an interview." Theseus muttered.

"Have a good day detective." Percival added and pushed Madge out of the door and slammed it in her face.

Sorry this took so long to get out. I've been working on another fanfic and it's kind of been taking all of my concentration. But hopefully everyone enjoys this chapter, even if it is a little late.

A few minutes later, after the three of them went back to their desks and got back to work, Tina stepped through the door. "Did I just see Madge Brooks sitting in her police car looking sad?"

"What? Yeah. Is she still out there?" Mana asked distractedly.

"Ahh, no. She drove off when she saw me pull up." Tina shook her head and sat down at her own desk.

"Has Tierney found anything else out about the murderer?" Mana asked.

"I don't- What was Brooks doing here?" Tina asked in confusion.

"Did Tierney tell you about the murder last night?" Mana asked instead.

"They did." Tina nodded.

"Well as I'm sure you know I resurrected the girl, Sheila, but we left the scene pretty much as it was. It's not like the police could get any evidence. Even if they had opened an investigation. But of course Brooks is determined and she came here to ask us question about the murder." Mana explained.

"The police opened an investigation?" Tina asked in surprise.

"Of course not." Percival scoffed. "My guess is that the department are just letting her run around town running with it so that she doesn't mess up their actual investigations."

"That makes sense." Tina nodded and turned on her computer to get some stuff done for Tierney.

"So, did Tierney find anything out?" Theseus asked.

"What? Oh, no. They said that they talked to the the elderly victims' ghosts but they didn't have anything to say that they hadn't already told us." Tina shrugged.

"Great." Mana sighed. "Tina what do you have going on?"

"I need to dig up some dirt on a bunch of families. Larissa and I are fostering two boys Grantaire and Courfeyrac. Their parents kicked them out when they caught them kissing two boys. Tierney and Queenie are fostering the two that they were caught kissing, Enjolras and then Jehan who is trans, so that they would still be able to date if they wanted to. And then Tierney and Queenie are also fostering some boys name Joly, Combeferre, Feuilly, Bahorel, and Bossuet. And a pair of siblings Gavroche and Eponine." Tina explained. "They were all kicked out or abandoned for one reason or another. Queenie was able to get them placed with us but now I have to dig up dirt on those assholes."

"Ok," Mana sighed. "Percy you're going out to the town line to do some cloaking work right?"

"Yes. And I believe that a few others are also heading out to do some growth spells on crops and such. I think that there is also an anti-fire spell being cast over some houses today too." Percival nodded.

"Ok. Well, Theseus, that means that it will just be the two of us looking into the murders for now." Mana said.

"You got it boss." Theseus nodded enthusiastically.

"Don't call me boss." Mana grumbled.

"Whatever you say, boss." Theseus smiled cheekily.

"Why do I keep you around again?" Mana sighed.

"Because I'm good at blowing things up." Theseus replied immediately.

"Oh, of course, how could I forget? Silly me." Mana snorted. "Are you sure that there aren't any jobs that require you to blow something up?"

"Nope." Theseus quipped.

"Because why would there be?" Mana muttered to herself.

"What was that boss?" Theseus asked with an air of innocence even though he knew perfectly well what Mana had said.

"Nothing. Now if you are done being a little shit, we have some work to do." Mana stated. And with that they all turned to their tasks. It wasn't long before Percival left to go do his thing and Tina soon left too to track down some leads. Which just left Mana and Theseus in the office.

"How are we supposed to narrow this all down?" Theseus asked once everyone had left.

"We're going to have to make a list of suspects to start with. I'll hack into all of the hospitals for all of the birth records for this town and the surrounding towns and filter out the women. You hack into the DMV and the Postal Service records. Look for any change of address from out of towners and any gender change requests in the DMV and filter out all of the men. Once that's done we can compare lists and combine them. And then we can start filtering out all of the men that don't fit the description of the masked man. And until we get more to work on we're just going to have to go person by person and either cross them off the list or keep them as a suspect." Mana explained.

"That's going to be a shit ton of names." Theseus pointed out.

"I know." Mana sighed. "But it's the best we can do right now."

Well here is the next chapter. Thank you to the people who left kudos, they make my day. I hope you all enjoy this chapter.

"What is she doing?" Former Police Chief Javert asked his husband Valjean, the Mayor, as they watched Madge almost fall into a puddle of mostly dried blood in the alley where Sheila was murdered the night before. The couple was standing at the window of the coffee shop that was across the street from the alley.

"How am I supposed to know?" Valjean shrugged as he watched Madge bend over sideways to get a closer look at something on the ground.

"You're the Mayor of this town. It's kind of your job to know what is happening in it." Javert pointed out bluntly.

"Hey it's not my fault that she doesn’t know how to be a competent police officer; nor is it my fault that the only reason she became a detective is because her father is the Chief. It’s also not my fault that her father replaced you as Chief when you retired. It's not like I appointed him or anything." Valjean shrugged again.

"But you did appoint him. You are the Mayor. It's your job to appoint new Chiefs." Javert reminded him.

"Sounds fake but ok." Valjean shrugged.

"I wouldn't lie to you. This I swear by the Stars." Javert told him seriously.

"Who even are you?" Valjean sighed fondly. "No one swears by the stars."

"It's not my fault that you don't understand the stars in their multitude. They fill the darkness with order and light. They know their place in the sky and they are always the same. Every season they return and return. They are the sentinels, silent and sure. They are everything this town should be, everything this town was. But now this town has fallen as Lucifer fell; the town fell in flames. And my only regret is that I will never see these people safe behind bars." Javert said passionately.

"What are you even talking about?" Valjean asked in confusion. He loved his husband but sometimes Javert would go on tangents about crime and criminals and Valjean would just get hopelessly lost. It wasn’t that he didn’t care about stopping crime, he did, it’s just that sometimes it seemed that Javert’s love of the law and justice eclipsed his love for his husband. Which was fine with Valjean, his passion was one of the things that Valjean loved most about his husband. And the kisses, he loved the kisses as well.

"The criminals! The organized groups of criminals!" Javert exclaimed. "They have taken over this town and it is only because I was not there to stop it."

"You mean the mobs?" Valjean frowned.

"Yes!" Javert exclaimed.

"I agree that we probably shouldn't have mobs since they are illegal, but it's not like we have any concrete proof that they are doing anything illegal. Oh sure they are definitely doing stuff, but it's not like they're murdering anyone." Valjean shrugged. This wasn't the first time that they had had this conversation and it always ended the same way. Javert would huff and puff and then he would drop it and they would go on with their day.

"Crime is still crime. And crime is illegal." Javert replied.

"Do I need to remind you how we acquired our daughter Cosette?" Valjean quirked an eyebrow and Javert was silent. "That's what I thought. Now come on, you promised me a walk in the park after we had coffee."

"Fine." Javert huffed but didn't move.

"The longer we sit here the less time we have for kissing before I have to go back to the office." Valjean reminded him.

"That's not fair." Javert pouted.

"I always play fair." Valjean gasped drastically.

"Why did I marry you again?" Javert sighed but stood up anyway.

"Because I'm the only one for you?" Valjean asked teasingly. "You did spend all that time hunting me down only for you not to realize that it was me right in front of your face."

"It's not my fault that you have a very common face." Javert blushed slightly.

"I'll have you know my face is anything but common." Valjean said haughtily and grabbed Javert's hand as they walked out of the coffee shop toward the park; in the opposite direction of the alley where Madge was still clumsily inspecting for clues. "I knew who you were from the moment I saw you. I wanted to see how long it took you to figure out it was me. But it took you forever."

"I figured out it was you eventually." Javert grumbled.

"Yeah because I finally gave up and told you. And even after I did you still didn't believe me." Valjean sighed. "It was only after you saw me at the gym that you put it all together."

"Not everyone can remember the face of every person they've met." Javert pointed out.

"No, but most people can remember most faces." Valjean said teasingly. "I guess that makes you not like most people, which is a good thing because I don't like most people."

Javert was silent, he didn't quite know what to say to that. No, he did know what he wanted to say, he just wasn't good at expressing his emotions if it wasn’t about crime and criminals. But Valjean was well versed in his husband and he always knew how Javert felt even if he didn't always say it out loud.

Here is the next chapter. Things are sort of happening.

It took the better part of the morning for Mana and Theseus to complete their lists. After they each had one they compared them and made one list after they crossed off the duplicate names. Once that was done Theseus crossed off all of the people who had moved to town recently because he and Percival had already looked into them. In the end they had a list, a very long list, but it was a start.

"I guess now we can cross names off based on age." Mana said speculatively as she and Theseus looked at the list. "We at least know that this guy is probably around the younger victims' ages. But to be safe I would say we cross off anyone under 18 and anyone over 40."

"That's still a lot of names." Theseus pointed out.

"That's starting to get annoying." Mana told him.

"What?" Theseus asked in surprise.

"You saying that there is a lot of names. Like no shit Sherlock." Mana rolled her eyes.

"What else would you like me to say?" Theseus sighed.

"I don't know, something helpful?" Mana snorted.

"You know that I would say something more helpful if I actually had something more helpful." Theseus said.

"I know." Mana exhaled sharply. "I'm just frustrated."

"We all are." Theseus replied.

"So I guess that the next step is to try and rule people out based on alibis." Mana said.

"And how are we supposed to do that?" Theseus asked.

"Well we know that Sheila was killed around 11 PM and we know that Jake was killed around the same time. So we can start by poking around to see what we can find." Mana answered.

"You want us to Facebook stalk everyone on the list?" Theseus asked in confusion.

"Well, I mean not everyone will have a Facebook but it's worth a shot to at least cross off some names." Mana shrugged.

"And after that?" Theseus questioned.

"I don't know. I haven't thought that far ahead yet. Right now I just want to cross as many names off the list as possible. We could probably cross a few names off of the people that are physically unable to murder someone. You know, like if they're in a wheelchair." Mana added.

"I guess I'll hack into the hospital again and do that and you can Facebook stalk everyone else." Theseus sighed.

"Why do I have to start the Facebook stalking?" Mana huffed.

"Because it was your idea." Theseus pointed out.

"Fine." Mana sighed and got to work.

"Wait!" Theseus exclaimed an hour later. "Me, Percival, and Newt are on the list!"

"Yeah, and? I included Tierney too even though I'm positive they didn't do it. Anakin is on the list too. And that one guy, what's his name? He owns that bakery, you're always saying how Newt loves it there." Mana shrugged.

"You mean Jacob?" Theseus asked. "He's on the list too?"

"Yeah, I mean I don't think he did it. Just like I don't think any of the mob members did it either." Mana replied.

"If you don't think they did it then why did you include them in the list?" He asked in confusion.

"I just wanted to be through. I figured we would just cross them off after we got the list together." Mana said.

"Oh." Theseus blushed lightly.

"Yeah, oh." Mana rolled her eyes. "If you want we can keep you guys on the list, but I think it would be a waste of our time to investigate all of you."

"No, no, point taken. I'll just take us off." Theseus said quickly.

"I can't believe it took you this long to figure out you were on the list." Mana teased him.

"In my defense there are a lot of names. It's not my fault that I haven't read them all." Theseus pointed out. 

"It is kind of your job to read all of the names." Mana pointed out. "We are trying to find the name of the murderer. And that kind of requires reading names." 

"No comment." Theseus said and then with that they fell silent and went back to their tasks. 

It was about an hour later that Percival finally returned and Mana gave him the low down on what they had gotten done so far and he joined them Facebook stalking everyone on the list. The three of them had been working in silence for a while when Mana's phone dinged with a text. 

She looked down and smirked as she red the text. "Is there something you would like to tell me Percy?"

"Ah no, I don't think so." Percival said in confusion.

"Newt just texted me to ask me if it was ok to ask you to meet him for lunch at Jacob's bakery." Mana told him.

"Oh? Well, is it ok?" Percival asked.

"Yeah, but we should all go. I think we could all use a break." Mana said and shut off her computer and stood up. After a second Percival and Theseus shut down their computers too and stood up.

“Ok, but before we go, no talking about mobs.” Theseus told Mana seriously.

“That’s fine, I wasn’t going to discuss mob business in front of Jacob anyway. But I am not telling Newt that mobs don’t exist.” Mana rolled her eyes.

“I’m ok with that.” Theseus nodded.

“Can we go now? You know before Newt decides to track us down and he finds out about mobs anyway.” Percival interjected. 

“Yeah, let’s go.” Mana said and the three of them exited the building and locked up before they headed to Jacob’s bakery.

Happy Holidays to everyone! Here is the next chapter, I would like to say that this chapter moves the plot along and it totally has something to do with stuff that happens later, but that would be a lie. It's just a fun little interlude that I could not help but write.

"Alex," John sighed at his boyfriend. "You can't just start a mob. We've been over this."

"John does have a point." Hercules, their other boyfriend, pointed out.

"I am sorry to agree mon petit leon." Lafayette, their significant other, added. "What would you even do?"

"Be gay and commit crimes!" Alex exclaimed.

"Your outfit is a crime." Jefferson snorted at Alex who was wearing his lime green frock coat.

"Like you can talk." Madison scoffed at the magenta frock coat his boyfriend was wearing.

"Talk less, smile more." Burr advised him.

"That doesn't even make sense." Thomas complained.

"Burr rarely makes sense." John added.

"What are you even doing here Burr?" Alex asked in annoyance. "Don't you have to go be indecisive in court or something?"

"You invited me." Burr reminded him.

"Come to think of it, why are Jefferson and Madison here?" Alex whipped around as if he only just realized that his self proclaimed arch rival and his boyfriend were there as well. The three of them were lawyers but Madison had a private practice so it was very rare for him to face Alex in court. Jefferson, on the other hand, was a prosecutor and Alex, as a defense attorney, had faced Jefferson in court multiple times. They had very different ideas of what constituted justice.

Burr shared a practice with Alex but he didn't often state his opinions and as a consequence was not a lot of help when Alex and Jefferson got into arguments about their differing views about how the law should be applied. "You invited them too." Burr informed Alex.

"I would never do such a thing!" Alex said dramatically.

"Babe, you told me last night that you invited them." John said. He was also a lawyer but he worked with Queenie and Padmé at CPS.

"Lies and slander!" Alex declared.

"Mon petit leon, I was there. John does not lie." Lafayette told him. They were also a lawyer but they decided that when they had moved to town that two lawyers in the relationship was enough so they started working as a baker with Jacob at his bakery. Hercules, of course, had a tailor shop in town.

"I feel like I should also point out that that one mob, Tierney's I think, that's their motto. Be gay, do crime." Hercules interjected before Alex got too worked up and started jumping on tables. They had only just gotten their new coffee table after Alex had jumped on the other one and broke it.

"How do you even know that?" Jefferson asked him suspiciously.

"I hear things." Hercules shrugged.

"At a tailor's shop?" Jefferson asked incredulously.

"You would be surprised." Hercules replied.

"At a tailor's shop though?" Jefferson repeated.

"Yes," Alex rolled his eyes. "We've already been over this Jefferson. Now if you are just going to act like an idiot then you can leave. I don't want you a part of my mob anyway."

"First, Alex, there is no need to be rude." Lafayette interjected.

"But it's Jefferson." Alex practically whined.

"I have to agree with Alex on this one." John added.

"Can you not talk about me like I'm not here?" Jefferson snapped.

"John, did you hear something?" Alex asked mockingly.

"Not a thing." John said nonchalantly.

"Boys," Lafayette scolded Alex and John.

"Just drop it." Hercules advised Lafayette. "You know how they are."

"Fine, but only because I have to get to work." They sighed.

"Oooh, can I come with you?" Alex jumped up suddenly.

"Of course, but is there a particular reason why?" Lafayette asked in confusion. They didn't mind Alex coming along but usually it was a struggle to get Alex to leave his work long enough to go anywhere.

"I was craving a cinnamon roll." Alex shrugged.

"Oh, bring me back one." John requested and Hercules nodded in agreement.

"Ok," Alex nodded and turned to their visitors. "That means that you should leave too." After a lot of grumbling from Jefferson and Burr the three of them stood up and Alex opened the door. He let them go through first and then he and Lafayette followed them out.

So here is this, sorry for the long wait. I kind of forgot? No, it's more just like I didn't have the motivation to do anything over the holidays.

By the time Mana, Percival, and Theseus got to the bakery Newt was already there waiting for them. "Percy!" He exclaimed and stood up to greet his boyfriend when he walked in.

"What am I? Chopped liver?" Theseus grumbled.

"Hi Theseus!" Newt exclaimed and pried himself out of Percival's arms to hug his brother.

"Hi Newt," Mana waved. "I hope it's ok that we came along."

"Of course!" Newt exclaimed happily. The four of them sat down and a few minutes later Jacob came out of the back to chat.

"Hi, I'm Jacob." Jacob smiled hesitantly at Mana, he heard the rumors just as everyone had and he was well aware of who she was. Just like he knew who Theseus and Percival were. Well, he had met them before, but he also knew what they did for a living. "Newt has told us a lot about you." Mana told him.

"All good things I hope." Jacob laughed nervously.

"Of course they were all good things!" Newt assured his friend oblivious to all of the tension swirling around.

"Well, anyway, what would you recommend?" Mana asked Jacob. "Newt told us that everything here is good."

"Oh, thank you very much." Jacob blushed. "It just kind of depends on what you want."

"Surprise me." Mana shrugged.

"What about you guys?" Jacob asked Newt, Theseus, and Percival. "The usual?"

"That works." Percival said and Theseus and Newt nodded in agreement.

"Ok, I'll be right out with that." Jacob nodded and then scurried back to the kitchen.

"I wonder what's wrong with Jacob." Newt frowned in concern. "He doesn't normally act like that."

"I'm sure it's nothing." Mana told him. "I do have a bit of a reputation."

"What do you mean? You're so nice!" Newt exclaimed.

"Don't worry about that Newt." Theseus said quickly before Mana could formulate an answer.

"Ok." Newt smiled brightly. When he turned away to say something to Percival Mana shot Theseus a very unimpressed look. All Theseus did in response was shrug. After a little while Jacob came back out with their pastries. Normally Jacob would stay and chat with Newt since he didn't have any customers but Mana kind of scared him so he didn't.

"Where are you going? Aren't you going to sit down with us?" Newt asked Jacob when he turned to leave. "I really wanted you to meet Theseus for more than five seconds. And Mana, she's great too!"

"Oh, uh-" Jacob stammered. "I have a large order of cookies and cinnamon rolls and a couple cakes and I don't have a lot of dough so I need to make some more."

"Oh ok." Newt deflated. "You should come and say bye before we leave."

"Of course." Jacob nodded quickly and then retreated to the kitchen. True to his word he did come back to say bye to Newt when he was getting ready to leave. Jacob couldn't find it in himself to say no to Newt even if Mana, Percival, and Theseus scared him. Just as the four of them were leaving Alex and Lafayette walked in. Alex's eyes lit up and Lafayette sighed deeply they had a feeling they knew where this was going.

"Hi Lafayette." Newt greeted them. "Who is this?"

"This is Alex, one of my boyfriends." Lafayette replied.

"Ah, I know you." Percival said. "You're a defense attorney right?"

"I am." Alex nodded and opened his mouth to say something else. But Mana interrupted him.

"You have another boyfriend don't you? John, right? My girlfriend Padmé said that she works with a person named John at CPS and that he was in a poly relationship." Mana said speculatively. She didn't know where this was going but she suspected that running into them wasn't completely by chance.

"Yep, that's him. Our other boyfriend Hercules owns that tailor's shop. Now Alex, weren't you just leaving?" Lafayette said and shoved a cinnamon roll into his hands and tried to usher him out the door.

"But I wanted to ask Mana about the mobs." Alex protested.

"Mobs?" Jacob chuckled nervously and eyed the three mob members in front of him.

"Is that so?" Mana asked blankly. "And what makes you think that I would know about any of that?"

"I'm confused," Newt frowned sadly. "How can you ask about mobs if mobs don't exist?"

"What-?" Alex asked in bewilderment. He thought Newt, of all people, would know what his own brother and boyfriend really did.

"I don't know what you're talking about, but like my brother said, mobs don't exist. I would hate to find out what would happen if some tried to dissuade him of that fact." Theseus glared icily at Alex. And Alex, possessing the bare minimum of self preservation, snapped his mouth closed and nodded.

"Yes, yes, of course." He said once he got his voice back.

"I'm glad we got that figured out." Theseus said sharply.

"Oh my goodness, look at the time! I have to get back to work." Newt exclaimed. He hurriedly kissed Percival and hugged Theseus before he dashed out of the bakery.

"Newt!" Theseus called and rushed to the door before Newt could get too far. When Newt heard his name he stopped and turned to face his brother. "Don't forget, mobs don't exist."

"I know," Newt rolled his eyes fondly. "You tell me that every time we see each other. Now I really need to go." And with that he dashed down the street.

"Umm," Jacob spoke up hesitantly. "I'm not one to listen to rumors and the like but, isn't it well know that, uh, you all- um. And Mana, she's- uh, the, you know-"

"The mob boss you mean?" Mana asked dryly.

"Yeah, that." Jacob said uncomfortably.

"That may or may not be true, but as far as my brother knows that isn't true. And if you value your life and your business I wouldn't say another word about any of this, to anyone. Especially my brother." Theseus said dangerously. "He is too good to be involved and I'll be damned if he gets even an inkling of it."

"Yep, yes. Of course. Not another word." Jacob said, nodding rapidly.

"Good." Theseus nodded and swept out of the bakery.

"I would apologize for Theseus, but he wants to protect his brother and I respect that. But just know that if I find out that you have been talking about me and my business behind my back and something happens to my family you'll wish that it was Theseus you were dealing with and not me." Mana said lowly and left the bakery with Percival in tow.

"You still want to start that mob mon petit leon?" Lafayette quipped.

"Well, that definitely gave me a lot to think about." Alex mused, already deep in thought.

"Is he serious?" Jacob asked incredulously.

"Unfortunately." Lafayette sighed.

"Well, you can leave me out of it." Jacob stated firmly. "I had wanted to confront Theseus about the whole no mob thing after Newt had said something a while ago. But now I wish I never said anything."

"Don't worry, I'll make sure Alex keeps you out of it." Lafayette assured him.

"Thank you." Jacob nodded. "Now, we have this huge order and I need help prepping everything."

"Of course. I'll be back there in a minute." Lafayette said. Jacob nodded and headed back to the kitchen and Lafayette turned to say goodbye to Alex.

"I'll see you at home." Alex said lost in thought and absentmindedly kissed them and then left. Lafayette just sighed and went back to the kitchen to join Jacob.

So here's this, I kind of keep forgetting about this fic because I am neck deep in this Harry Potter fic I'm writing. I will probably post 2 or 3 chapters today just because I've been terrible at actually remembering to update.

"Well that was interesting." Mana commented when her, Percival, and Theseus finally made it back to their office.

"Do you think he will be a problem?" Percival asked.

"I don't think so." Mana shrugged. "Honestly he's probably more of a nuisance than anything. I don't see him causing any problems for us."

"Unless he tells Newt about the mobs." Theseus said darkly.

"Would that really be so bad?" Mana sighed. She respected, well respected might have been a strong word, but she knew that Theseus was an adult and could make decisions for himself. At the same time though she was getting tired of his choice to not tell Newt about what he really did. She didn't expect him to tell Newt all of the nitty gritty details, she would probably wring his neck if he did that, but at the same time at least she had told Padmé and Anakin what she did for a living.

Granted, in that case she did wait a while to tell them since Anakin and Padmé had literally just escaped from a cult all while Padmé was in labor. And then just when they thought it was all over Anakin had to pull over just outside of town because Luke and Leia couldn't wait to be born any longer. So because Mana didn't want to scare them off she waited until they had settled in to tell them the truth. And yes, after she told them Mana had to work hard to regain that trust that she had broken with her secret. In the end they forgave Mana and the three of them had been happy together and trying to raise Luke and Leia as best they could.

Mana knew that part of the reason why Theseus was so reluctant to tell Newt the truth was because he had been lying to him for so long that if he did tell Newt the truth it would ruin their relationship forever. Of course Percival being in the mix complicated things a little bit. Or a whole lot, depending on the person being asked. But at the same time it was Theseus that first started lying to Newt and when Percival started dating Newt Theseus dragged him into the lie as well.

"Yes! It would destroy everything!" Theseus exclaimed frantically.

"You're overreacting." Mana rolled her eyes. "Everything will be fine."

"I have to agree with Mana on that one. I'm pretty sure the mob will survive even if you tell Newt about us." Percival pointed out.

"That's not what I was talking about." Theseus retorted.

"Then what were you talking about?" Mana sighed.

"Newt! I'm talking about Newt! He is too good, if he finds out it will destroy him and he won't be the same ever again." Theseus cried dramatically.

"You're being over dramatic." Mana rolled her eyes. "Newt is an adult, he'll be fine."

"I think I am being the right amount of dramatic." Theseus protested.

"No one who has ever said that had been the correct amount of dramatic." Mana snorted.

"Lies and slander." Theseus declared.

"Anyway," Mana said, ignoring Theseus. "Since we narrowed down the list as much as we could before we met Newt, the only thing left to do is dig for as much information as we can find on everyone left."

"There has to be at least 100 people on this list." Theseus said.

"It's actually 107." Percival replied.

"Oh, sorry, my bad." Theseus said sarcastically.

"Boys." Mana said warningly.

Almost immediately Theseus and Percival grew silent. And after a moment the three of them discussed how they were going to split up the list. Eventually they just decided to split it up into thirds, as equally as they could. And then once they each had a section of the list they turned to their computers and settled in for a long night of research.

Second chapter of the day, well maybe like half of a chapter because it is shorter than usual. But we finally meet the murderer.

On the other side of town a man stopped suddenly in the middle of the sidewalk. This caused the person behind him to run into him. "Pay attention." The person, another man, huffed angrily and shoved past him. But the man barely heard him. Instead he was staring at a couple across the street.

Now, under normal circumstances it wouldn't be unusual to see two people on a date. But these were not normal circumstances. The fact of the matter was that the man was 100% sure that he murdered those two people. Which meant that it was impossible for them to be out and about and undoubtedly and unmistakably alive. "The fuck!? Fuck! Ok, ok, get yourself together." The man whispered harshly to himself.

And then he took a deep breath and spun around on his heel and briskly walked back to his house. His house, much like his own appearance, was very unassuming. The outside was very nondescript and looked like every other house on the block. But that was just a façade that hid the horrors within. And just like his house the man was handsome, not too handsome, but he looked and acted normal enough that the people he interacted with on a daily basis had no idea about his true nature.

The only people who had any inkling about his true nature were dead. Or they were supposed to be. As far as he could tell the three elderly people he had poisoned were still dead, but the same could not be said for the young man he killed a couple weeks ago or the young woman he killed the other night. "They were dead. They had to have been. I stabbed them enough times." He muttered to himself and started to pace in his living room.

It wasn't until he had been pacing for 10 minutes that he realized that his curtains were still open once he realized that he rushed to the windows and yanked the curtains closed. "It just doesn't make sense. They should be dead. Unless- no, that's just a rumor. Magic doesn't exist." He shook his head. "Well, I guess there is only one thing to do."

The man waited until it was full dark outside. He pulled on his mask, sure he killed his victims but he didn't want to risk anyone else seeing his face. As it turned out he was glad that he wore a mask or else his most recent victims would have been able to describe his face to the police. He grabbed his knife before he left his house by the back door. He didn't really have nosey neighbors but he didn't want to take any chances. He made his way downtown and the hunt for his next victim had started.

Ok, last chapter of the day. Things are starting to heat up now, the rest of the fic is basically 0 to 60 just like that. I hope everyone enjoys it.

Mana, Anakin, and Padmé had all just collapsed in bed after finally putting Luke and Leia to bed. It was bath night and the twins hated taking baths. As a consequence it always took the three of them to give Luke and Leia a bath. Of course it was right when they had collapsed for the night that Mana's phone started ringing. "Ahh, are you fucking kidding me?" Mana groaned and rolled over to answer her phone. "Let me guess, there's another body."

"Unfortunately." Tierney replied tiredly. "But you would only be half right. He killed a couple this time."

"The fuck? The fuck is wrong with this guy? Why is he only dropping bodies at night?" Mana complained.

"Well I would assume it's because he doesn't want to get caught and sent to jail." Tierney replied dryly.

"Where are the bodies this time?" Mana sighed and rolled out of bed to get dressed again.

"In an alley. Just around the corner from the police station." Tierney replied.

"This guy keeps getting bolder and bolder." Mana said as came out of the closet wearing Anakin's clothes.

"Are you any closer to figuring out who he is?" Tierney asked.

"I don't really want to talk about this over the phone." Mana glanced at Anakin and Padmé. Mana knew that Anakin and Padmé didn't exactly agree with what she was doing. They were supportive, but they didn't want to be involved. So Mana tried her best not to talk business in front of them. "I'll fill you in when I get to the scene."

"Ok." Tierney said. "I'm having Tina meet us there as well. We could always use a fresh set of eyes."

"I'll take all the help I can get." Mana nodded even though she knew that Tierney couldn't see her. "I'll text Percy and Theseus to meet us there." Once Tierney agreed Mana hung up and texted Percival and Theseus.

"There's been another murder, hasn't there?" Padmé sighed once Mana got off the phone.

"I don't know all of the details yet, but there were two this time. And right around the corner from the police station." Mana sighed.

"Will you be ok resurrecting two people? We've seen how you are after only one." Anakin asked in concern.

"I'll be fine. You don't have to worry about me." Mana assured them.

"I'm coming with you." Anakin stated after a moment.

"I'll be fine." Mana said. "I promised you and Padmé that I wouldn't drag either of you into my business. I'll be ok."

"You're not dragging me into anything if I volunteer." Anakin retorted. "And anyway it would be better if I went with you rather than Padmé."

"Padmé?" Mana asked her girlfriend.

"If Ani wants to go it's his decision." Padmé sighed.

Mana sighed deeply. "Ok, Anakin, you can come. But I have a condition."

"Anything." Anakin nodded.

"When we get there you stay in the car. Ok? I don't think that it will be dangerous but I wouldn't put it past the killer to be lurking around or even Detective Brooks. And there's no need to put you or Padmé on their radar." Mana said.

"I grew up in a cult. I think I can handle sitting in the car for a little while." Anakin said flatly.

"I know, I know." Mana said. "I've just tried very hard to keep you and Padmé and the twins out of it, and yet here we are. The last thing I want is for any of you to get hurt because of my business."

"We trust you Mana. We wouldn't have stayed this long and built a life with you if we thought that you would put the twins in danger on purpose." Padmé said softly. "Me and Ani don't matter, as long as Luke and Leia are safe and loved, that is all I care about."

"Gee, thanks Padmé. I'm really feeling the love." Anakin said playfully as he reattached his prosthetic hand that he took off for bed.

"We all know that you feel the same way, you just wouldn't have phrased it as well." Mana interjected.

"I feel so attacked right now." Anakin complained.

"Whatever." Mana rolled her eyes. "Come on, the sooner we leave the sooner we can come back."

"Be safe." Padmé told them before they left.

"Always." Mana promised her with a smile.

"Make sure not to cause too much trouble, ok?" Padmé said.

"Don't worry, I'll make sure Anakin stays in the car." Mana assured her. "Actually I was talking about you." Padmé said pointedly.

"I'll have you know that it's me that prevents trouble from happening." Mana pouted.

"Don't worry, I'll keep any eye on her." Anakin said.

"Come on, we should get going before Theseus and Percy come hunt us down." Mana said.

"Ok, ok. I'm coming." Anakin sighed and followed Mana out to the car.

Well, here's this. It's definitely long over due. I have no excuse. Thanks to everyone who has been reading. First of three chapters I'll post today. We get to take a peek into Anakin's mind.

Anakin was the one that drove to the latest murder sight which meant that the usual 15 minute drive only took 5 minutes. Anakin was a speed demon and in another life he had dreamed of being a race car driver. But that was all before the Jedi found him. There were a lot of things that Anakin had wished for in his life but that all changed when he met the Jedi. He was happy with his life now and he wouldn't trade his kids or Mana and Padmé for anything, but every once in a while he remembered his childhood dreams, and he mourned for them.

It wasn't that he had wished they had come true or even that he felt like he failed. He mourned for what could have been if the Jedi had never come into his life. In his mind he always divided his childhood into two parts, before the Jedi and after the Jedi. Sometimes, during the moments he felt especially low, he would imagine what his life would have been like if the Jedi never found him.

In his fantasy his mother would still be alive and he would have found a way to make their circumstances better. Maybe he would have gone to school more regularly and maybe he would have become a race car driver just like he had dreamed when he was a boy. But of course he would eventually remember that he would have never met Padmé and he wouldn't have the twins and he would have never met Mana. Whenever he would go down that dark spiral he would always try and hide away because he didn't want to drag Mana and Padmé into his spiral, but they would always find him every time without fail.

Of course Anakin wasn't as stealthy as he thought he was and it was pretty obvious to Mana and Padmé when he was about to go down that road, and he always went to the same three places so it was never hard to hunt him down. They had tried many times to try and get Anakin to talk to them when he was having a hard time, but it was Anakin and he didn't want to be a burden or a bother. He was very content with his decision to stay home with Luke and Leia because it allowed Padmé to focus more on her law career. And it let Mana worry less about being a mob boss.

It wasn't that he thought that he was unimportant, Mana and Padmé made sure to tell him just how important he was to them and to the twins multiple times a day, it was more that he wanted Padmé and Mana; even though she committed crimes; to succeed in whatever they were doing. And he was perfectly happy to stay at home and let them do that. He was used to it. The Jedi highly discouraged activities that did not directly benefit them. So Anakin was well used to suppressing his desires and wants.

Mana and Padmé tried many times to get him to see that the Jedi were wrong and it was fine, more than fine actually, to have wants and desires. And Anakin understood that. The problem was that he wasn't sure what he wanted. He spent so much of his life suppressing his emotions and his desires that he had no idea how to be selfish. Granted he did give into his love for Padmé, and later Mana, but he never saw that as doing anything selfish. At least not after they found out Padmé was pregnant. At that point running away from the Jedi wasn't selfish, even though he had dreamed of running away many times, he was just protecting his family.

Mana and Padmé had tried to get Anakin to talk to a professional many times but he refused every single time. And they knew that they couldn't force him so they did the only thing the could and they just supported him and loved him unconditionally. And for the most part it worked. Anakin still had his ups and downs, but then again no one could be happy all the time. It just wasn't possible, or healthy, and Mana and Padmé also had their ups and downs and Anakin was there for them when it happened and they were there for them when he needed them.

"Anakin?" Mana asked in concern. When they had arrived at the crime scene a couple of minutes ago Mana had Anakin part a couple of streets over just in case. But after they parked, Anakin suddenly grew silent and stopped breathing. Mana knew that he was probably thinking about his childhood. He didn't drive very often because of his hand, he could, he just never did. So she knew that it probably brought back memories.

"What?" Anakin flinched and gasped.

"You stopped breathing. Are you ok?" Mana asked.

"Yeah, yeah. I'm fine." Anakin said breathlessly.

"We both know that is a lie." Mana said pointedly.

"I'm fine, really. You can go, it's ok. I'll be fine here." Anakin insisted.

"I don't believe you. Are you sure?" Mana asked uncertainly as her phone beeped with texts from Tierney, Theseus, Percival, and even Tina asking where she was.

"You need to go." Anakin said logically. "Don't worry. I'm fine."

"Ok," Mana frowned. "I'll be back. But don't think that we're not going to cuddle later."

"I wouldn't miss it. Now you should go." Anakin said with a small smile. Mana sighed and kissed Anakin on the cheek and then left the car.

Here is the second chapter of the day.

By the time that Mana had arrived on the scene Tierney, Percival, Theseus, and Tina were already discussing the newest murders. "So what do we have?" Mana asked breathlessly.

"Well we have two victims this time." Theseus sighed. "A couple."

"George and Frank." Tierney supplied.

"What do we know?" Mana asked and crouched down to examine the bodies.

"According to George he and his husband Frank were just walking down the street when some guy in a mask shoved the both of them into an alley. And then he started stabbing them." Tierney said.

"Did they see anything else?" Mana asked. Tierney cocked their head to listen to George and Frank.

"No," Tierney said after a moment. "It's the same as the others. He wore a mask and didn't say anything. He just knocked them to the ground and started stabbing them."

"There's nothing else?" Mana sighed.

"Well there is one other thing." Tierney paused to listen. "They noticed that the killer was agitated."

"And how is that any different from any of the other times?" Theseus huffed.

"Well, for one thing he killed them just around the corner of the police station." Percival interjected.

"I'm with Percival on this, the killer definitely wanted the bodies found by the police." Tina nodded in agreement.

"But why would he do that now? He didn't do it with the other victims." Theseus asked in confusion.

"Because the police didn't find the other bodies. We got to them first." Mana replied. "He wants recognition for the murders and we took that away from him. Fucker."

"So are we doing this or what?" Tina asked.

"I guess so. Before someone finds us all standing around two dead bodies." Mana said and started drawing the required sigils in the victims' blood.

"Wait, are you sure you can handle this?" Percival asked in concern.

"I'll be fine Percy." Mana said shortly. "And anyway Anakin drove me here. So it will be fine. The sooner I do this, the sooner we can all go home."

"Ok, ok. I got it." Percival said quickly.

Mana just fixed Percival with a look and continued drawing the sigils. Once she was done she started chanting and the whispers started. And then a black mist formed, and then just as quickly as it started it dissipated and the two men shot up with a gasp. And Mana pitched to the side almost immediately. Though luckily Percival knew that would happen and he was able to catch her and help her sit on the ground. While Percival was helping Mana Theseus, Tierney, and Tina were trying to convince the newly resurrected men to not go to the police. But they were not convinced.

"That dude killed us! Why the hell shouldn't we go to the cops?!" George exclaimed.

"You know who I am, I take it?" Mana interjected tiredly.

"Uhh, yes." George and Frank nodded nervously.

"Then you know what I can do. You experienced it first hand. And I can assure you that I will find your killer and stop him even if I have to kill him myself. But I can't do that if the police start an investigation. So for now you lay low and just go about your lives. We have a discord with the killer's other victims. It's kind of like a support group. We're all on there too and if you remember anything you can message us there. It's probably better for you to do that rather than hunting us down." Mana explained.

"Fine, but I still don't like it." George frowned.

"You don't have to like it." Mana said bluntly and nodded at Percival to give them the discord information. "Now you should go home." And then without any more prompting George and Frank scurried off.

"We should also get out of here." Tierney pointed out.

"Yeah, we can talk more later." Mana nodded tiredly and tried to stand up on her own.

"Mana." Percival tsked. And leaned down to help Mana up.

"I'm fine." She sighed but she let Percival help her up. Once she was standing she leaned on him heavily.

"Be careful." Tierney said and they left with Tina.

Theseus hesitated a moment longer before he let Mana shoo him off. Once everyone was gone Mana directed Percival to where Anakin was waiting for her in the car. "Are you ok?" Anakin asked Mana after Percival had left.

"I'm fine." Mana sighed. "Let's just go home."

"Your wish is my command." Anakin smiled at her and drove home.

Last chapter of the day.

He didn't linger long once he was sure that his latest victims were dead. It wouldn't do to give the game away too fast. And at any rate he still had a plan to carry out. He wanted people to know that there was a killer running loose, but it was too early for him to get caught. After he finished his work he slipped into an alley and peeled off his mask. He shoved it into his backpack along with the knife.

That knife, the knife, it was his heart; his soul. It was his instrument. It was the tool that he used to create art. It was the only self expression that he allowed himself. It was how he lived, truly lived. It was how he lived as he never could in his everyday life. The knife was too important to leave behind at the scene.

There wasn't anything special about the knife; it looked like just a regular switchblade. But that was what a normal person saw, what he saw, what he felt, was something else entirely. It was his whole life. It had been with him for as long as he could remember. Longer even, buried deep in the recesses of his closet were photo albums from his childhood. Many of the pictures featured him with his knife. There were even a couple of him as an infant with the knife just inches away from his tiny hand.

It never occurred to him that there was anything wrong with letting a child have a knife. Such things were normal to him. It was just what he grew up with. And he wasn't the only one, a lot of his childhood friends, kids he grew up with, also had various bladed weapons. But none of them ever had the kind of bond that he had with his knife. They never understood when he tried to explain the depth of his connection with his knife. They never understood that his knife was just an extension of his being.

They never understood that when he used his knife to kill someone that was the only time he felt true ecstasy. It was like the knife sucked the life of his victims and transferred it to him. It didn't matter that they didn't understand that that was the reason why he always felt so alive when he killed someone with that knife. It didn't matter that they didn't understand his connection to his knife, it was something that they didn't need to understand. The only thing that they needed to understand was his love of killing and watching the life drain out of someone's eyes. They understood that very well because they felt the same thing.

Back when he had first started his career he had tried using a different knife to kill, but it never gave him the same feeling. At first he hadn't wanted to use his knife, it had been with him for so long that he didn't want to risk losing it or even breaking. But that first kill, it didn't make him feel any of the things he had been promised he would feel. So the next night when he went out again he went out with his knife.

That night, all those years ago, as he stalked through the streets he had never felt so alive and that was when he knew he had made the right choice. If that was how he felt just looking for a victim he couldn't imagine what it would feel like when he actually stabbed someone. And when he did, it was incandescent. It was everything he could have ever imagined and even more than he could have asked for. And it was at that moment, as he watched the life drain from his victim's eyes, that he knew he had made the right choice.

And ever since that night whenever he stalked the streets he made sure to take his knife with him. But of course all good things had to come to an end because he had made too many waves in that town and people were starting to notice something off about him. So he was forced to move and start fresh. Of course once he got to town he didn't immediately start back up again. No, he had to establish himself as a nice, normal, and average man. He had a plan, a responsibility, and he wasn't going to mess it up this time.

He knew what his mistake was in the last town, he got too big. Each of his kills were bigger than the last. People started to wonder about him. And he couldn't get caught, he just couldn't. He promised himself that he would succeed and return to his true home, his true family, victorious. He had made a promise to himself and to them, and he intended on keeping it. He owed it to them. They were the only ones that truly understood him.

They were the ones that nurtured him, they raised him. And they never shunned him for his proclivities. In fact they rejoiced in them, they applauded him. And that was why he couldn't get caught, at least not yet. He still had important work to do. And as he knew now his knife was a vital part of that. He had poisoned his elderly victims because he didn't want anyone to know what he was up to until it was too late. But that didn't work out quite as he planned.

Of course he had his knife with him when he killed them. But as he discovered later, it had to be the actual instrument of murder. And he kicked himself for that, for wasting time. He knew that he only felt the true ecstasy of a kill when he killed with his knife, but it didn't matter now. Not when he had a direction, all he had to do was make sure that his victims stayed dead. And if he had anything to say about it, they would. Even if he had to kill them over and over again.

So I have no excuse for not updating, all of the chapters are already written. I just kind of got distracted. I'm uploading the last five chapters today, so this is the first.

Over the next two weeks Mana and the others found significantly more bodies. The first body they found was a man named Spike. The killer had left him in the same spot near the YMCA where the very first victim, Angel, was found. And then the next was Drusilla. She had been killed in the same spot Sheila was, in an alley near the café. And then a couple was killed, Tara and Willow, near the courthouse and the Mayor's house. And the killer's latest victims were another couple, Rupert and Wesley, who were found near the Post Office.

"What the fuck is wrong with this guy?!" Mana exclaimed the next day. In a rare turn of events Mana, Percival, Theseus, Tierney, and Tina all met at Mana's private eye office. Usually they refrained from all meeting in person but the killer had dropped 8 more bodies in the span of two weeks so it was pretty important. And the private eye office was considered by both mobs to be mostly neutral territory. Mana did run her business out of the office but Tina also worked there full time so it wasn't as partisan as it could have been.

"He's batshit crazy." Tierney said dryly. "I thought that much was clear, considering we have, like what? 10 bodies."

"Yeah, I got that, thanks. I was more referring to the fact that he keeps killing people even after we resurrect them. Like I would have thought that he would have given up." Mana rolled her eyes.

"You seriously thought that he would just give up all because his victims keep coming back to life?" Tierney asked blandly.

"Well of course not but I thought that he would at least slow down and not speed up." Mana huffed. "I also hoped that we would have more to go on by now."

"But we don't and he didn't." Tina pointed out.

Percival and Theseus opened their mouths to retort but Mana held up her hand and their mouths snapped shut. "This isn't really helpful, we should get down to business."

"To defeat the Huns?" Tierney half sang half asked.

"Well yes, but no. I was talking about getting down to business to figure out who the fuck is killing all of the townspeople." Mana said.

"Do we have anything new to go off of?" Percival asked.

"Not that I heard from any of the victims' ghosts." Tierney shrugged.

"What about the discord?" Tina asked.

"Nothing." Theseus sighed. "The only thing that we learned was that the killer had a backpack as well. Most of the discord is all of them arranging meet ups. Apparently Angel and Spike are now dating and Drusilla and Sheila are also dating."

"That's gay." Tierney interjected.

"Anyway," Theseus continued as if Tierney had not spoken. "As far as we know nothing new has come from them."

"I have an idea." Tina raised her hand.

"Tina, you don't have to raise your hand. We are all adults here." Tierney pointed out.

"I know that." Tina blushed hotly and lowered her hand and fell silent.

"What was your idea?" Percival asked after it became clear that Tina wasn't going to elaborate.

"We should write everything down that we know up on the board or something so that we are all on the same page. And maybe we could put up some crime scene photos or something. We could even get a map!" Tina exclaimed.

"You want us to make a murder board?" Mana asked incredulously.

"I don't know if I would call it that-" Tina trailed off.

"What else would you call it?" Percival asked.

"I don't know." Tina shrugged. "Not that."

"Well we can't do that anyway. We don't have crime scene photos, as that would kind of defeat the purpose of keeping this under the radar." Mana pointed out.

"We could probably still write everything down that we know. And get a map. Who knows, maybe we'll figure something else out." Theseus shrugged.

"Ok, yeah, fine. We can consolidate our knowledge. But it might take a while for a map. I don't think we have one in the office." Mana sighed. "Percy, we have a big notepad in the back. We can use that."

"On it boss." Percival nodded and went to the storage room to dig for the giant notepad. It only took Percival about 10 minutes to find the giant notepad. And when he returned they all got down to work writing down everything that they knew. Of course it wasn't a very long list even when they added all of the names that they still hadn't crossed off. "Well," Mana said when they were done. "I guess it's not a lot but there it is."

"So, what do we do now?" Tierney asked.

"We still need a map!" Tina exclaimed.

"That's going to take a hot second because we don't have one in the office." Mana replied. "But honestly there's not really much we can do besides keep an eye out for this guy."

"What are we even supposed to look for? Some middle aged guy who isn't creepy?" Tierney snorted.

"We could always ask Newt to try and find him." Tina suggested. Theseus glared at her and she shrank back. "Or we could not do that."

"That's what I thought." Theseus nodded sharply.

"Theseus you need to chill. No, we are not talking about this again." Mana held up a hand when Theseus had opened his mouth to retort. "I guess for now we can all go home."

"I feel like we should be doing more." Tina grumbled unhappily.

"There is nothing more we can do. Furthermore, we aren't the police. We don't have an obligation to actually find this guy." Percival pointed out bluntly.

"I know that." Tina said defensively. "Why are we even looking for him then?"

"He's bad for business." Mana said bluntly. Tina opened and closed her mouth but no sound came out. She didn't really have a response to that, no one did. Soon after that they all dispersed for the night.

Here is the second chapter of the day.

Night had set and the moon was silently rising but he did not turn a light on. Instead he sat in his favorite armchair in the dark. He twirled his knife in one hand absentmindedly as he started out into the darkness of the night trying to figure out what the fuck to do next. Everything was going according to plan, the amount of bodies, where the bodies were, everything was great except for the fact that they weren't staying dead.

He had been sitting in the same spot all day, with his knife, trying to figure it out. The whole thing was driving him insane, well more insane. He was self aware enough that he knew that most people did not have the same thirst for blood that he did. But that was fine with him, that just meant there were more people for him to use to create his very own art with. And his family believed in him, they nurtured him, they fostered his talent. They never shunned him for it, in fact they embraced him for it.

They applauded him, they revered him. It was his best trait, it was something that they looked for in children. And here he was, he had the artistry, the vision, and the drive in spades. That was the whole reason why he was chosen for this assignment. He was the only one that could ever hope to succeed. But right now he was failing, and he never failed. It never occurred to him that he could fail, he had everything on his side, and yet here he was 10 kills in and not even a body to show for it.

It was grating, knowing that he stabbed so many nameless and faceless; at least to him; people, and well they barely counted as people in his eyes; the only true people were his family and this cattle called humans hardly qualified; and watched the blood and the life drain from their eyes only to see them walking around town the very next day. It was infuriating, he did not put in all of the effort to perfect his art and his craft for it to all be wasted in the matter of less than a day.

He had been sitting in his day trying to figure out what went wrong. It never even crossed his mind that he did something wrong. He knew with certainty that he did everything right. He had spent most, if not all, of his life mastering his art. And the current bodies he dropped were by no means his first. So he knew that it wasn't him, which meant that it had to be something else, or someone else. He had heard the rumors of course, how couldn't he? But he had pushed them from his mind, but now, could it be?

"No." He scoffed at himself for even considering that nonsense. "Magic doesn't exist." Of course he was conveniently ignoring exactly why he had been sent to the town in the first place, but that didn't count, not really. What he was doing was the truth, it was fact, he had evidence, it was totally different from what the townspeople whispered about. Or at least that's what he told himself.

"But what else could it be?" He growled to himself and gripped his knife tighter. It was then, as he clutched the knife; his knife; that he felt it.

It was a rush. All 10 lives that he had taken rushed back into him all at once. It was as if he had killed them all over again. With a gasp he dropped the knife on the carpet and as suddenly as the energy surged within him it was gone. He looked at his hand and then ever so slowly bent down to grab his knife. But he couldn't quite make his fingers close around the knife and they just hovered over it.

Never before in his life could he remember a time when he did not revel in the feeling of his knife in his hand. It had always been a part of him and he had never been afraid of it. But that rush of power, he had never experienced anything like it before. Of course he had always felt like he had been reenergized when he stabbed someone and watched the life drain from their eyes. But he always thought that it was just because of the rush of the kill and not anything else. But now he was questioning everything.

Slowly, ever so slowly, he took a deep breath and curled his fingers around his knife. He braced himself the moment that it was fully in his hand, but nothing happened. "Hmm," He mused. "What to do with you?"

And then suddenly, inexplicably, it came to him. It was as if the knife had whispered its every secret in his ear and suddenly he understood. He grinned sharply and shark-like. "Oooh," He crooned. "The fun you and I will have. The best is yet to come."

And now, now that he had a purpose, he no longer had a need to prowl at night. Oh he would prowl at night, one couldn't stop an artist from painting, could they? No. He would never stop hunting, creating, but he had everything he needed. That meant that he had to focus on the second part of the plan. So having received all of the answers he slipped down to his basement to make preparations for the next part.

"Oh baby, you and me. You and me. We will make art like no one in this town has ever seen." He crooned delightedly to his knife as he settled himself in for a long night.

Third chapter of the day.

The next morning Mana woke to 50+ panicked messages on the discord. "The fuck?" She sighed. Anakin and Padmé were nowhere to be found, so Mana figured that they let her sleep after she had gotten home at like 3 am. The fact that they weren't in bed with her meant that she didn't have an excuse to not catch up on all the messages, so she went to the top of the thread to catch up. As she scrolled down further and further she went pale and her face froze. "Fuck, fuck. God fucking damn it. Shit, fucking. Fuck. Shit, shit, shit. Fuck." She hastily got out of bed. Or she tried to, her legs got tangled in the blankets and she fell on the floor with a loud thud. "Aww fuck." Mana groaned.

"Mana?" Anakin asked frantically as he raced into the room. Padmé wasn't far behind him.

"What happened? Why are you on the floor?" Padmé asked her.

"It's mob stuff." Mana said tersely and yanked at the blankets to free her legs. "You don't need to worry about it. Why won't these fucking blankets come off?!"

"You know we care about you, right?" Padmé asked Mana softly and a touch sadly. She and Anakin sat down and helped Mana free herself. Or they tried to but Mana smacked their hands away.

"We're just trying to help." Anakin said calmly and resumed helping Mana even though she swatted at his hand as he hadn't put on his prosthetic yet. Most of the time he waited as long as he could because sometimes it would start rubbing his arm the wrong way and it would start hurting.

"I know." Mana huffed. After another moment Anakin succeeded in freeing Mana and she sprung up and bolted for the closet to get dressed. She came out a moment later with clothes haphazardly thrown on. With that done she tried to brush past Anakin and Padmé but they blocked the doorway.

"What happened?" Padmé asked. "You can talk to us."

"I know." Mana sighed tiredly. "I can't really get into all of the details."

"We understand. Just talk to us." Anakin pleaded.

"I know that we usually don't want to know about anything you have going on, but this is different." Padmé added. "You've been running yourself to the ground resurrecting all of these people and trying to catch their murderer. And we know that you are trying but you have a lot on your shoulders and it's taking its toll. Talk to us, let us help. Even if it is just to listen."

Mana sighed heavily. "It's all of the people I brought back. It seems like their life force is still connected to the killer, somehow."

"What?! That's impossible!" Anakin exclaimed.

"That's never happened before, has it?" Padmé asked.

"No. Never. That's not how my magic works." Mana shook her head. "I don't know what happened. There shouldn't be any sort of connection, at all. All I know is that everyone in the chat said that they felt like their life was leaving them, at the exact same moment. And they said that as soon as it started it stopped. As far as I can tell it hasn't happened again. But I need to get to the office and figure what the fuck is going on because if what happened can happen again we're fucked."

"Ok, be safe." Padmé sighed.

"Call us if you need anything." Anakin added.

"I'll be at the office all day." Padmé reminded Mana.

"And I'll be here." Anakin said.

"I'll let you know. But I really need to get going." Mana said and quickly kissed Padmé and Anakin on the cheek. On her way to the office she texted everyone else and had them meet her at the office.

"I don't know a lot about magic, but shouldn't all of the killer's victims be here too?" Tina asked once Mana had explained everything.

"They will at some point." Mana said distractedly as she flipped through a book about magical objects. "But I won't be able to figure anything out from them about why this is happening in the first place." She sighed and put down the book and picked up another one.

"But couldn't you, I don't know, cast some spell to see if there was some sort of spell on them?" Tierney asked.

"I could do that. If I wanted to waste my time." Mana snorted and picked up yet another book. "All that would tell me is that they are all connected to one guy. It wouldn't tell me how or why, or where he was or how to sever the connection. The only way I can figure everything else out is if I figure out what he used to kill them with."

"And looking through books will help you do that?" Tina asked incredulously.

"Yes." Mana said tersely.

"Trust us, we know what we are doing." Percival said.

While Mana and Theseus flipped through the magic books Percival brought out a town map that he had found. And Percival, Tina, and Tierney started plotting where all of the bodies were found. When they finished they noticed something that immediately put Percival on edge.

"Mana, I think we found something." Percival said gravely.

"We found something too." Mana said. "Here, look at this. It says here that if a person has powerful enough magic that it can basically create an object that helps the user utilize their magic more effectively."

"Wait, so are you saying that our killer is using a magical knife?" Tierney asked.

"It seems like it. He must have some sort of energy stealing power, but he can only use it if he kills them with this knife. It would make sense then, why his victims felt like their life was leaving them after I brought them back. You know, the knife links them all." Mana explained. "So what did you find?"

"You aren't going to like it." Tierney warned Mana.

"That doesn't sound good." Mana sighed. "Ok lay it on me."

"Ok, so I'm no magic expert but even I know that a pentagram is bad." Tierney said. Tierney and the others had plotted all of the murder sites and connected the dots, literally. The murder sites formed a pentagram.

"Aww fuck." Mana said as she studied the map. "What's in the center? That's probably where the killer lives."

Before anyone could answer Padmé burst through the door looking frazzled. "Mana, have you seen Ani? I went home for lunch and he wasn't there. The twins were fine, they were upstairs. But I couldn't find Ani, he would never leave them alone. You and I both know that."

"Shit, double fuck." Mana swore.

Of course before anyone could respond to that revelation Jacob burst through the door. "Sorry, sorry, I know I shouldn't be here. But have you heard from Newt? He was supposed to come by the bakery today but he never showed up. I tried to call him but he didn't answer."

"Aww, triple fuck." Mana sighed.

Fourth chapter of the day, one more to go.

Anakin woke up slowly. He tried to rub the goose egg he could already feel forming on his head only to find that he couldn't because his hands were tied together. He tried to do something, anything, but it seemed like the concussion was messing with his powers. "Shit." Anakin groaned. From what he could tell he was in some sort of basement.

"Arrgh, where are we?" Newt groaned. He too also tried to rub his head but quickly discovered that his hands were also tied together.

"I don't know." Anakin said and took a more careful look at the basement that they woke up in. And then Anakin stilled. There was an altar in the middle of the room and lit candles around the perimeter but that wasn't what made him pause. It was the banner that hung above the altar. More specifically it was the symbol on the banner.

It was then that they heard the basement door creak open and footsteps, slow and heavy on the stairs. "Well, well, well. I see that my lovely guests have woken up." The killer crooned in delight.

"If you would call people you knocked over the head and tied up in your basement guests." Anakin spat.

"Anakin." Newt said warily.

"Ohh don't worry Newt. I'm not going to kill you, well not yet at least." The killer smirked and circled Anakin and Newt predatorily. "I have plans for you yet."

"And what plans would those be?" Anakin asked slowly. He already had a pretty good idea based on the decor but he had to know for sure.

"Normally I wouldn't tell you Jedi scum anything, but since you'll be dead soon, it doesn't really matter now does it?" He said as he idly twirled his knife.

"Jedi?" Newt asked in confusion.

"What do you know about the Jedi?" Anakin asked with a sinking feeling in his stomach.

"Tsk, tsk, tsk." He said cheerily.

"I would have thought that you would know the answer to that question. I did make sure to put a lot of thought into the decor." He gestured grandly to the banner in the middle of the room.

"I don't know what you've heard, but I'm not one of the Jedi. Not anymore. I escaped." Anakin said. "And Newt has nothing to do with any of this."

"I don't understand any of this." Newt interjected but Anakin and the killer ignored him.

"You should know as well as I do that that doesn't mean anything to the Sith." He smiled darkly.

"Sith?" Newt asked in growing confusion.

"But don't worry," He smiled sharply. "That won't be a concern of yours soon enough."

"What are you going to do to us?" Anakin asked.

"Oh? I thought I already said. I'm going to murder you in a ritual that will allow the Sith to finally destroy the Jedi." He sing-songed. "Now, if you'll excuse me. I do have somethings to take care of before the sacrifice." And with that he spun around and skipped back up the steps and slammed the door behind him.

"Anakin," Newt whispered. "What is going on? What's the Jedi and Sith?"

"Cults." Anakin answered shortly.

"Cults?" Newt repeated.

"I grew up in one. It's how I lost my hand. Padmé got pregnant and that's when I decided I couldn't stay with the Jedi anymore. I don't know much about the Sith, but they are basically the 'evil' counterpart of the Jedi." Anakin explained.

"What does he want with us?" Newt asked in confusion. "I know that he wants to sacrifice us. But why us?"

"There is one ritual I heard about when I was very young. It is supposed to give the Sith the power of the Force and make them powerful enough to destroy the Jedi. I think it required a Jedi and someone innocent in the ways of the world, but it could not be a child." Anakin replied.

"Me? I'm the innocent?" Newt asked with a kicked puppy look.

"Do I really need to answer that?" Anakin asked.

"What do we do?" Newt asked.

"I'm working on it." Anakin sighed.

"I believe in you." Newt smiled brightly.

Here it is, the last chapter. I hope everyone enjoyed this fic. Thank you to everyone who has left kudos, they always make my day.

In the end it didn't take Mana and the others very long to find the exact ritual that the killer intended to perform once they had put everything together. And once they figured that out it didn't take very long for her to figure out how to sever the connection between the killer and his victims. What did take a while was getting everyone at the office and then tracking down someone who could actually perform the spell because neither Mana, Theseus, or Percival could since their magic didn't manifest in that way.

Once that was done it was pretty simple to figure out that the killer was Eric Wenceslaus since the only other building in the center of the pentagram was the elementary school. And with all of that information it was a simple matter of busting in and rescuing Anakin and Newt. It was not so simple for Eric. When Mana and the others burst in instead of just surrendering he decided to fight back and he died. Though that was probably for the best. The police did not have the capacity to hold a Sith in jail, and Mana did not want to risk Eric breaking out or the Sith breaking him out and then going after Anakin.

She had vowed that she would never let the Jedi or the Sith hurt Anakin again and she had already failed once and wasn't about to let it happen again. Once everything was all said and done Tierney and Tina went back to their side of town. And once Mana, Percival, and Theseus burned down the house and made it look like arson, since he did have all of those candles lit it wasn’t too put there, and the. They, along with Newt and Anakin went back to Mana's house where Padmé was waiting for them with the twins.

"Theseus, you lied to me." Newt said after they had all eaten dinner together. Theseus had wrapped a blanket around Newt, despite his protests, and Percival had wrapped his arms around Newt. Anakin was in a similar position with Mana and Padmé.

"What? I didn't lie about anything." Theseus said calmly. But on the inside he was freaking out. What if Newt knew about mobs?

"Yes you did." Newt insisted with a pout.

"Newt, I have no idea what you are talking about." Theseus said.

"Cults!" Newt exclaimed. "Cults are real! And you never told me!"

"Oh," Theseus nearly sighed in relief but he managed to hold it in. If he did that now Newt might get even more suspicious. "I'm sorry Newt. Cults are real. I just never wanted to talk about it, none of us did. We didn't want to bring up any bad memories for Anakin, or Padmé."

Anakin, Padmé, and Mana glared slightly at Theseus for using Anakin's trauma as an excuse to lie to his brother about mobs. Theseus shrank back which Newt noticed, what he didn't notice was Mana, Anakin, and Padmé's glare. Which of course gave Newt the entirely wrong idea. "It's ok Theseus. I forgive you. You were just trying to protect me."

"Anyway," Percival said, steering the conversation away from mobs and cults. "I never would have thought that Eric was the killer."

"Well, his first name was Norman." Mana shrugged.

"Yeah," Padmé nodded. "I can see why he went by his middle name. Norman just screams serial killer."

After that Theseus, Percival, and Newt only stayed for a little bit longer before they left. And then it was just Mana, Anakin, and Padmé sitting in the living room.

"What do you say to some quality cuddling time?" Mana suggested.

"I would love that." Padmé sighed happily.

"I want to be in the middle!" Anakin exclaimed.

"Of course," Mana smiled softly. "Come on." And with that the three of them stood up and made their way up to bed.