Title: Le Jour de l’An
Work ID: 43591155
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Holidays, New Years, Fluff and Angst, Very fluffy angst, Canon Era, Post-Seine
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert plans on spending New Year's Day alone, but receives a surprise visitor.

Work text:

Javert had never been a social man, but he had kept an especially low profile since that night in June when Valjean had talked him down from the parapet. He had made no preparations for New Year’s Day. He isolated himself, giving no gifts and having no cards printed up. He instead worked a long shift as all of Paris ground to a halt for the holiday - all except the criminal element. He volunteered to work that day, to spare the other officers with families. He tried to be charitable when he could, these days. 

Shortly after he arrived home late in the evening, there was a knock on his door. It must be his portress, although who could say what she wanted at this time of night. He opened the door, and could not believe his eyes. Standing in the darkness of the hallway was a white-haired gentleman, dressed all in fine black.

“Good evening, Javert.” He handed over a card, understated but on good paper, bearing the name Ultime Fauchelevent.

“This…” Javert said, turning over the card in his hands. “But you could have had this delivered and saved yourself the trouble.” The implied intimacy of the visit troubled him. 

“I went out calling with my daughter earlier. I wanted to visit you properly after work.”

“And the name?”

Valjean looked embarrassed. “My daughter had them printed up. She knows me by that name.”

“Hmm, then. ‘Fauchelevent.’ Why are you here?” He hated the thought of being a charity project for Valjean.

“I was thinking over the people of my acquaintance - they are mostly dead. And you. You are the closest thing that I have to a friend these days. Other than Cosette’s fiance and his relations, there is no one else that I went to see today.”

“Fauchelevent! The man with the cart!” exclaimed Javert, remembering. “You stole his name?”

“It was a gift, rather: nevermind the full story. He was the closest thing that I’ve had to a good friend.”

Javert cocked his head suspiciously. He thought he remembered that the man had been openly hostile towards Valjean. 

“Here,” said Valjean suddenly, shyly. He made a gesture as unexpected as the time he had used his knife to free Javert from his bonds: he pulled out a package of sugar plums. Javert took them hesitantly. 

“I wish you would stay in touch,” Valjean continued. “Come visit, or just write. You have my address.”

Javert was annoyed - he once more found himself indebted to Valjean. “I will see what I can manage.”

“Happy New Year,” Valjean said, and hesitantly stood up on his toes and kissed Javert lightly on the cheek. 

Javert felt the soft brush of lips as if they had been a blow. All the confusion and admiration which he had worked so hard to tuck away after that night in June came back with a vengeance. Valjean, seemingly unphased, said his goodbyes kindly enough, and left. 

Javert, deeply flustered, brooded long into the night.