Title: curious fireflies
Work ID: 43744200
Author: 
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: 5+1 Things, Dancing, Ballroom Dancing, Canon Era, Enemies to Lovers, Tango, Alternate Universe - Vampire, Alternate Universe - Western, Gay Bar, Furry, Javert Lives
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 5/6

Summary:
Five times Javert danced with his enemy, and one time he danced with his lover.

Work text:

Montreuil-sur-Mer

24 December 1822

 

It was, the inspector supposed, as good a venue as any for whiling away the evening. As much as he’d balked when the mayor first asked him, and although he’d resisted until the query came for a third time, Javert had to admit that it was hardly any worse than spending Christmas Eve in his spartan home. It was even, perhaps, a smidge more pleasant to be standing in the corner of the hall dubiously dubbed a “ballroom” for the evening, his uniform tidily buttoned and creased, his hands clasped behind his back, watching couples twirl across the dance floor and overhearing snippets of inane gossip.

*  *  *

When Madeleine had first asked him, the late afternoon light filtering through the window forming a sort of halo around his graying hair, Javert thought he must have misheard. He’d stared at the man in amazement until the mayor was forced to repeat himself: “Some residents have gotten it into their heads to hold a ball on Christmas Eve, and although I would rather spend the evening by the fireplace with a good book, it seems I absolutely  must  attend, or so M. and Mme.  _______ inform me. I thought you might like to come as well.” 

“A …  ball ?” Javert repeated dumbly. 

“Yes, that is a rather grand name for the affair, in all honesty. The ____ residence is hardly Versailles, and I will not be attending costumed as topiary, or any type of flora, for that matter. Nor will you be expected to dress as the huntress Diana.” Madeleine chuckled softly, and Javert, too embarrassed to admit that the reference entirely missed him, made a half-hearted attempt at a smile.1  

“I appreciate the invitation, sir, but I do not believe a ball is the type of environment in which my skills would be put to good use.” He attempted to duck out of the mayor’s office at that point, but Madeleine had emerged swiftly from behind his desk and caught his arm. 

“Javert,” Madeleine said, standing, the inspector thought, a little closer than necessary, “sometimes it is beneficial to do things for … well, for fun, and not simply because you will be useful.”     

When Javert said nothing in response to this superfluous observation, Madeleine added, “I think you should consider attending. You might find that you enjoy yourself.” 

The inspector let out a laugh that sounded more like a bark. “I can think of nothing that sounds less enjoyable.” 

He wanted to leave again, but Madeleine was still clutching his arm. The mayor stood still, looking, for some reason, rather disappointed. Just as Javert was coming close to a decision about the most appropriate way to go about removing the mayor’s hand from his arm -- Should he simply request the man release him? Clear his throat pointedly? Wrench his arm free? -- Madeleine spoke again. 

“I suppose, now that I consider it, it would be useful to have some security at the event. Mme. ____ let me know she anticipates a high rate of attendance, and there will, of course, be alcohol on the premises. I imagine Mme. ____ would be greatly reassured by your presence.” 

This sudden twist made Javert pause.

“Are you asking me to attend as part of my duties as inspector?” 

“No, no,” the mayor said, now thankfully on his way back to his desk, “not as an official job duty. This would be entirely optional. I am simply saying that your presence would not, in fact, be useless.” 

“I will consider it,” Javert said, before beating a hasty retreat.

 

*  *  *

“I am being pressured to participate in the dancing. Perhaps you will join me for this round?” 

Javert had shifted his gaze from the couples to watch the snow falling steadily outside, and was so absorbed in the quiet beauty of it that he was almost in a trance. The mayor’s sudden question, apparently addressed to him, thus caused him to start -- and he berated himself for this, because Javert rarely let his guard down enough to allow himself to be startled.  Some security guard I make. 

Perhaps he had gotten mixed up, with the shock of being caught daydreaming -- but no, he was certain the mayor had just asked him to dance. He glanced discreetly around them, thankful for the privacy of his corner, before formulating his reply.

“Sir, I am not the most well-versed in society’s customs, but I believe you are meant to ask a lady.” 

Madeleine chuckled, his cheeks going a little pink above the corners of his mustache. “I meant,” the mayor elaborated, hastily but not unkindly, “why don’t you ask one of these lovely ladies over here to dance, and I will do the same, and you can join me in participating in the upcoming round?” 

“Oh!” Javert frowned slightly, embarrassed. He had never attended a dance before, but he had noticed some patterns while observing the crowd that evening, including that most of the dances seemed to involve four couples who began each song as at the four corners of a square, and made elaborate movements around each other for the duration of the song. Madeleine’s request, of course, made sense in that respect: He was asking Javert and another individual to form one of the four couples, and the mayor and one of the giggling ladies clustered against the far wall would form another.

That was, however, irrelevant. Javert did not dance.

“I shall have to pass, sir.” 

“Why shall you have to pass, Javert? And please, can we dispense with the sir business? Just for tonight?” 

“I do not know how to dance. And I shall try, sir.” 

“Oh, I can teach you. There’s really nothing to it!” The idea seemed to give the mayor a sudden burst of energy, and before Javert could stop him, he was deep into the history and mechanics of the quadrille.

“You’ll like it, Javert; it began in the military with mounted units. It’s a very fitting dance for a policeman.” The mayor went on at some length, tossing about terms like  jeté  and  arabesque , which described steps Javert could only guess at.

“There are five parts to the dance. The first is  Le Pantalon , which will involve the couples crossing over --”

“I really think you’d do better to recruit someone else.”

“Nonsense! Now, the second movement,  L’été , is more lively -- ”

“It will  be  summer before this explanation is over,” Javert muttered.

“ -- and then, in  La Poule , there will be this point where we all form a line --”

“This all sounds far too complicated, Mayor Madeleine.” 

“I am confident that you can handle it, Javert. After  La Poule  , we will come to  La Pastourelle  , which is my favorite. It involves a lovely promenade. Sometimes there’s also  La Trénis . And then we’ll have the finale.”

“SIR,” said Javert, raising his voice a bit in despair, because the mayor’s words had done nothing to clarify the complicated maneuvers he had observed on the dance floor, “I really have no idea what you are describing.” 

*  *  *

Ever since arriving in Montreuil-sur-Mer, Javert had felt that strange, subtle uneasiness that comes when one’s intuition is sounding the alarm; it is like hearing music played ever-so-slightly off key, or seeing a smile on someone’s lips and another emotion entirely in their eyes. Hairs stood up on the back of his neck and his fingers, unbidden, drummed themselves on tabletops: Something was wrong, and that something had to do with the mayor. Of that, Javert was certain, but what exactly comprised that “something” was elusive. He thought he’d had it, that day when the cart fell on old Fauchelevent. The mayor had performed a feat of strength reminiscent of one he had seen in Toulon. But believing the mayor to actually be that particular convict would require evidence far more concrete than Javert’s circumstantial observation, and anyway, hadn’t the mayor gone ahead and performed the feat after Javert had mentioned the convict? It would be folly to do that if he were the man himself, and whatever else Madeleine was, he was not foolish. 

Until the day he could prove that Madeleine was a fraud, all he could be certain of was that the man was currently the highest local authority, and Javert would be remiss if he were to show any disrespect for the office. As time wore on, he was quite horrified to discover that he also enjoyed Madeleine’s company. Javert, as a rule, did not enjoy anyone’s company. Even worse, the feeling seemed to be reciprocal. That made Javert even more suspicious of Madeleine. The inspector was accustomed to being respected, esteemed, feared, hated -- but certainly not  liked . He was sure Madeleine was playing him, but to what end? 

In the midst of all this, the mayor’s bizarre request that Javert attend a social function put him on alert. At first, he was convinced the man wanted him out of the way so that some crime or other nefarious deed could be committed, but as Madeleine was also attending the dance and he had not successfully connected the mayor to any other criminal element, he discarded the hypothesis. After telling Madeleine he’d consider the invitation, the mayor asked for updates daily, eventually wearing Javert down. He finally agreed to gain some peace and quiet.

*  *  * 

Madeleine had brushed off Javert’s concern with distressing ease, insisting that the best way to learn the quadrille was by doing. They would be stationed across from each other, Madeleine said, and he would do the moves first, so all Javert would have to do would be to copy him. 

His arm was again taken into custody by the mayor and he was half-dragged across the hall, protesting to no avail. When they arrived in front of the group of women waiting to dance, Madeleine was quickly surrounded by eager, eligible ladies, and Javert realized too late that he had no idea what he was supposed to do. Was there a script for this? He eyed the few ladies who hadn’t flocked to the mayor’s side. One surly-looking woman stood apart from the rest and glared at him, as though daring him to ask her to dance. She was tall, with a long face and heavy, serious brows, and he didn’t recall ever seeing her before. He decided she was as good a prospect as any -- something about her glare appealed to him. Perhaps she would say no, and he’d have an easy out. 

“Hello. Yes, you, in the yellow dress. Do you want to dance?” 

She looked him up and down skeptically, but then, to his surprise, she said, “Sure, why not?”

And that was how Inspector Javert ended up sharing the dance floor with the mayor he suspected might be a convict. Perhaps, in fact, a thief, one who repeatedly attempted to escape from prison,, a parole violator, a man who had stooped so low as the highway robbery of a child.

The quadrille was as complicated as it seemed, and it was not something simply learned by doing, as Madeleine had indicated. The more experienced dancers made the jaunty moves look easy enough, but Javert nearly tripped over his own feet several times, and could feel that his body was bending stiffly, not like the sprightly springing steps of the other seven dancers in their square. He made it through the first movement without too much trouble, but got turned around somewhere in  L’été . At one point, after one of the many cross-overs and partner switches, he found himself bowing and raised his head up to see … the bemused, kindly face of the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer.

His partner in the yellow dress was awkwardly standing alone on the other side of the square, and he could feel the gaze of the girl Madeleine had been dancing with on his back. 

Javert froze, knowing the error must be his fault but entirely unsure how to fix it gracefully. Madeleine, as tactful as ever, reached behind him for the lady’s hand, drew her close and whispered in her ear, and then she crossed the square to join Javert’s partner. 

This all seemed to happen in an instant, as much time as it took Javert to even process what was happening. Fortunately, they were in the part of the dance where the other two couples were moving, and there was nothing else to do for a moment or two. 

The mayor leaned over to whisper to him: “I’ve asked the two ladies to dance together, so I’ll be able to help you learn the steps. Fear not, this kind of mistake is not uncommon.” 

Despite the reassurance, Javert could feel himself turning red with a mixture of embarrassment and anger. How dare Madeleine take it upon himself to change dance partners! To assume that Javert couldn’t right his own mistake! That he couldn’t fumble his way through the rest of the movements! 

And yet, a part of him was relieved. He was still angry when they bowed to each other at the beginning of  La Poule , but Madeleine helpful whispered guidelines to him as the dance proceeded. He found it hard to maintain his anger when he was skipping across the room, clapping hands with the lady across from him, and even when he was promenading with the mayor, their hands clasped and their feet bouncing. If anyone had asked, he would have said he was focusing all his energy on getting the steps right and had no time for angry thoughts. In the deepest part of himself, however, Javert knew the truth was that he was experiencing this much-lauded concept of “fun.” When the dance was over, the mayor gave Javert a charmingly deep bow and even took his arm to guide him off the dance floor. 

Later, when the ball had ended and everyone had spilled into the streets of Montreuil-sur-Mer, Madeleine appeared at his side again. 

“Admit it: You had fun for a moment there.” 

Javert scoffed and said nothing, but he slowed his stride to walk in time with the mayor. They were quiet for several minutes, listening to the gentle crunching of the snow under their feet and the fading sounds of the other party-goers. The inspector had been walking toward his residence automatically, and it wasn’t until they reached his doorstep that it occurred to him that Madeleine had walked past his own house. 

Javert stopped and said awkwardly, “Well, this is where I -- uh -- I’m going to go inside now.” 

Madeleine’s eyes seemed to twinkle in the darkness. Javert noticed that some snowflakes had landed in the man’s eyelashes and beard. 

“You were a lovely dance partner tonight, Javert.” 

“Hardly.” The inspector hesitated, his hand in his pocket, searching for his key. “I do appreciate your help, though. You kept me from making a greater fool of myself than I already had.” 

A beat passed, and then, against his better judgment, he said it: “You were right. I did enjoy myself tonight.” 

Madeleine beamed up at him. And then, astonishingly, he reached for Javert’s hand -- which had emerged from his pocket with his house key -- and brought it to his lips. 

“It’s only the appropriate way to end a night with your dance partner, you see.” 

Javert blinked. 

“We speak of this to no one,” he said, before turning the key in the lock and walking inside.

 

1. The Yew Tree Ball return to text


Paris, France



24 December 1935


 


When one has a true, irrepressible mission in life, one sometimes finds oneself doing improbable things. 



Javert reflected on this as he stood in the moonlight outside an unmarked establishment in Paris. He adjusted his suit, making sure the wooden stakes concealed inside his coat were secure, then took a deep breath and confidently opened the door.



He had been preparing for this night for months. Dozens upon dozens of nights at 

practicas 

and 

milongas

, absorbing the informal rules of the culture, teaching his body to make the foreign movements, practicing his improvisation. This was how the man who had previously abhorred the idea of physical contact with a stranger trained himself in the art of intimate dance. And it was all because the vampires of Paris became interested in the Argentine tango. 


The dance had achieved sudden, stunning popularity in the city, and with no group more so than the vampires. The notorious vampire hunter of Paris tamped down his disgust and began a strict, self-imposed regimen of practice and performance until finally he was skilled enough to show his face at Les Lucioles et Les Moustiques.


The underground 

milonga

 popular among vampires had first appeared on his radar shortly after its opening in 1934. The dancing there, he’d heard from his contacts, took on a competitive, almost aggressive quality, and those with the most impressive performances had the chance to dance with the 

milonga

’s founder himself, the elusive vampire Javert had been hunting for nigh on a decade: Jean Valjean.



Upon entering -- 

finally

 -- 

Les Lucioles

, Javert’s first impression was that of darkness. The smallish room was dimly lit by flickering candles in wall sconces, and the way one would sometimes catch a flash of their light in the abundance of mirrors truly was reminiscent of 

lucioles

, fireflies. Once his eyes adjusted, Javert realized that the room was unhealthily crowded, a sure violation of fire safety rules. Not only were the darkly-dressed figures sitting practically on top of one another on the floor, leaving only a circular area for dancing, a small platform for musicians to stand on, and a narrow path to the door, but some vampires were clinging to the walls and ceiling, hanging like grotesque overgrown bats. Javert repressed a shudder.



It seemed there was no tolerance for talking or any other activity in 

Les Lucioles

 aside from dance. It was different in many ways from the 

milongas

 he had grown accustomed to, not least because only one couple seemed to dance at once, dozens of pairs of eyes following them around the floor. 



As a newcomer, it seemed Javert was expected to prove his worth at once, and he did not flinch. The first person approached him in an obvious challenge and he danced in a manner that seemed to prove satisfactory, another swiftly followed, and he found himself performing several times in a row. Melodies of tragic love played on and on, lending a melancholy aura to the threatening one gaze of bloodthirsty eyes. He found that some of his unchosen partners expected him to lead, others to follow -- but then, he had anticipated that from the information he received from his underground contacts.



There was a hush before the vampire Valjean entered. The man was shorter than Javert, dressed in a long black tailcoat lined with red satin, his eyes sparkling, his fangs sparkling more. The smirk he gave Javert let him know instantly that Valjean knew who he was, but was going to go through the pretense of this dance anyway.



They began circling each other in the ring, less like dancers than boxers sizing each other up. As they approached each other, Javert knew from the way Valjean looked up almost coquettishly that he was expected to take the lead. He stepped carefully, placing his feet in their well-kept dress shoes just between Valjean’s slightly parted boots. He looked down into Valjean’s eyes for a solid moment, hoping to learn something from them, but the hazel eyes were hard to read. They had the coy look of a follower preparing to dance the tango, and something hard underneath -- and yet, not quite hostile. 



Javert suddenly pulled the man into a close embrace, his hand on his waist. He wanted the vampire to feel the stakes lining his coat, and by the way the man’s body stiffened slightly, he knew it was effective.



The musicians took this as their cue to begin playing. He recognized the opening of 

El día que me quieras

, the most popular tango song of the era. Javert opened his left hand, and Valjean’s palm slid against his, surprisingly warm compared to the other vampires he’d been dancing with that night.




Acaricia mi ensueño el suave murmullo de tu suspirar

, the singer in the corner crooned.



Valjean smelled of sandalwood and smoke, something he found quite distracting during the opening steps of their dance. 




Cómo ríe la vida si tus ojos negros me quieren mirar




Once he shook off the trance this appeared to initiate -- some sort of vampire trick, maybe? -- he began to dance more assertively. Leg traps and catches,




Y si es mío el amparo de tu risa leve que es como un cantar




 displacing Valjean’s foot with a sudden 

empujadita

, 




El aquieta mi herida




inserting his leg between the vampire’s with confident 

sacadas

, 




 todo, todo se olvida




bringing their thighs together for a sweeping 

barrida

. 



The teasing footplay became rapidly more difficult; his partner had the benefit of a vampire’s heightened senses and he seemed ready for every move. He even found the time to add embellishments of his own: 




El día que me quieras 




the figure-eights of 

ochos

, 




la rosa que engalana




a few 

ganchos

 where he hooked a leg around Javert’s, 




Se vestirá de fiesta




a 

caricia

 sliding suggestively down Javert’s leg,




con su mejor color




and then Javert initiated a 

sentada. 

Even he was shocked how well he executed it, with all of the vampire Valjean’s considerable muscle resting on his thigh, both his feet in the air, Javert supporting him with effortless good form. 




Y al viento, las campanas dirán que ya eres mía





Y locas las fontanas se contarán su amor




And then the vampire reasserted himself, taking the lead with a strong 

sacada

 cutting through Javert’s legs, moving his arm slowly down to Javert’s waist. Javert felt peculiarly aware of Valjean's fingers there; despite the man’s cold, undead body, his skin seemed to burn. It was as if all Javert’s blood rushed to that area: He felt suddenly lightheaded, uneasy. Perhaps it was better that now all he could do was follow.




La noche que me quieras desde el azul del cielo




Valjean was strong. He had known that; had spent years studying everything about the man. But it was different to feel it with his own body, the large hands caressing him, their firm but gentle hold. 




Las estrellas celosas nos mirarán pasar




They spent a large portion of the rest of the dance in 

friccion

, Valjean veritably dragging Javert across the dance floor. Javert was forced into submission, unable to do anything but point his toes and keep his body straight and listen to Valjean’s steady breathing near his ear.




Y un rayo misterioso hará nido en tu pelo





Luciérnaga curiosa que verá que eres mi consuelo




Javert’s head was still buzzing. He was only dimly aware that he had just ceded the control of his body to the man he’d been hunting for years, the only thing between their chests a few layers of fabric, his feet not even on the floor ….




Luciérnaga curiosa que verá




Valjean lifted Javert firmly off the floor as they approached the end of the dance, and Javert kicked a few times out of instinct before landing into a high 

enganche

 with Valjean. They remained frozen like that for a moment. 




Luciérnaga curiosa que verá




He could feel Valjean’s heartbeat: they were that close together.




Que eres mi consuelo




They ended the dance with a dramatic open-legged figure, Valjean’s eyes boring into his.



As the crowd began to applaud, Javert felt Valjean’s breath hot on his ear, the scent of smoke filling his lungs. 



“Follow me to the back room.”


24 December 1885

Somewhere in the American West

 

“Alright, break it up, break it up.” 

The sheriff sauntered into the saloon, thumbs in his belt loops. Most of the gamblers scampered away as soon as they saw his face: He was the grizzled, sideburned, ponytailed man feared by outlaws across seven counties. 

But one man stayed seated, slowly lowering his hand of cards and raising his head to meet the sheriff’s gaze. Javert stared back. 

It was Jean Valjean, who had escaped from the jail Javert put him in decades earlier to become the most wanted man in the American West.

“It’s just jackpots, lawman. Want in? If you can afford the ante, that is.” This last comment was made as he pointedly scanned the sheriff’s outfit: Old and scuffed boots, threadbare pants, faded hat.

“No thanks. I don’t play thieves,” Javert sneered. He approached the table, taking the time to drink in his victory. He’d spent years on the hunt, plastering wanted posters with Valjean’s face all over his jurisdiction and sometimes beyond, only to come face to face with the man during a routine gambling bust. 

“I know you’re accustomed to fleeing, but you must know it’s useless today. My men have the saloon surrounded. Make this simple and surrender.” 

It was a bluff; if any of his men were on the property, they were probably spending their free hours doing something moderately illegal in one of the back rooms. Still, he felt confident. Valjean was on his territory, apparently alone, old and gray. In the decades that had passed since their last encounter, Javert had only grown stronger, more experienced. More importantly, the sheriff had -- as always -- the law on his side.

The old man looked weary. “You haven’t changed at all, have you, Javert?” When the sheriff proffered handcuffs by way of reply, Valjean stood up. 

“We need to visit my room upstairs first.”

He shoved past Javert to start up the stairs, leaving the sheriff to rush after him. 

“Excuse me, you don’t call the shots here. We are not going upstairs.” This was rather unconvincing, as they were already more than half up the stairs. “Tell me right now what you have waiting in that room. Are your accomplices holed up in there?” 

“It’s just a girl,” the old man said gruffly. 

“Oho! I should have known you were into whoring too. I’ll add solicitation to your list of charges. It’s grown quite extens--”

Javert broke off when Valjean opened the door to his room, revealing a girl. Not one of the prostitutes the sheriff knew frequented the establishment, but a girl in the true sense of the word: maybe 8 years old at most, scruffy brown hair hanging to her shoulders, tightly clutching the most pathetic little doll Javert had ever seen.

She ran to Valjean and hugged his leg. Javert frowned. 

“What did this man do to you?” he asked. “Did he take you away from your mommy? It’s ok, you can tell me. I’m from the police.” 

Valjean flashed him a warning scowl. The girl only hid her face behind Valjean’s leg. The old men bent down and Javert heard the girl whisper, “Papa, I’m scared.” 

Javert scoffed. “Don’t be afraid, little girl. As I said, I am the law.”

Valjean’s face distorted in anger. “ Will you shut up for a moment? ”  

The sheriff did, in fact, shut up -- not because of the presumptuous request from a criminal, of course, but because he sensed he might be able to learn something from this interaction. 

“Cosette,” Valjean said quietly, his back to Javert, “I need to go away for a while. With this gentleman here.”

Cosette’s eyes were wide. “I can’t come with you?”

“I’m afraid not.” 

“But … but where will I go?”

Valjean was quiet then, presumably because it was a question he could not answer. He simply wrapped his arms around the child. 

Javert, watching this, was beginning to feel uncomfortable. He cleared his throat to indicate that Valjean should get a move on, although he wasn’t sure he was ready for that himself. Was it legal to simply leave a child in an inn of questionable reputation? What would happen to her? What were his responsibilities to the child here? Should he search out her parents? And if he didn’t find them? And what to do if Valjean  was her only surviving parent? Javert was well versed in the laws of his jurisdiction, but this was not something anyone had bothered to codify. It probably didn’t happen often enough. Perhaps, in their tiny settlement that sprang up during the Gold Rush and then began to fade away, it had never happened at all. 

 Valjean straightened up. He looked at Javert with pleading eyes, which he did not have any right to. 

“Where are you taking my Papa?”

The child called Cosette looked at Javert with pleading eyes. Which he supposed she did have a right to. 

There was a long silence as Javert hastily shoved the handcuffs back into his duster’s pocket. 

“We’re just going, uh … ” The sheriff cast about for an excuse, something to buy him some time to question the thief about this child situation. His first thought was to say they were going to play cards, but as a lawman he could hardly promote gambling in the presence of a minor. So he said the next thing that came to mind. “...I’m just taking him downstairs for a dance.”

“A  dance ?” Cosette squealed, while Valjean gave him a baffled look. “Why can’t I watch?” 

“You … you can watch, if your dad says it’s ok.”

* * *


 quick quick    slow    slow 


The band was, as usual, playing sad cowboy songs, with just a fiddle and a guitar and a harmonica. They were doing the two-step, because it was the only dance either of them could claim to have an inkling about.


 quick quick   slow   slow 


Javert tried to shove aside the bizarreness of the situation: dancing with his mortal enemy while a little kid cheered them on and the barkeep kept sneaking curious glances. One of Valjean’s hands on his shoulder, the other clasped in his, trying to suppress the instinct to cuff him. 


 quick quick   slow   slow 


He pulled the thief closer, so he could whisper questions without being overheard. He felt Valjean’s stubble brush his cheek as he whispered, “Is she your daughter?” 


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“Legally? No.”

“What other way is there?” 

“I’m caring for her. Her mother can’t. Does that not make me her father?” 

“What happened to her mom?”

“She’s dead.”


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“But you’re not … that is to say … you weren’t intimate with the mother?” 

“What does that matter?”

A momentary pause. 

“It matters to the law.” 


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“No, I was not ‘intimate’ with her mother.” 

“So who is her real father?” 

Valjean flinched slightly. “I do not know.” 

“Does the real father not have a right to her?” 

“Perhaps, but it appears to me that he forfeited that right when he abandoned her mother.” 


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“Where’s her other family? Aunts, uncles? Grandparents?” 

“There are none. She was in the care of a couple of abusive con artists when I found her.”

“What do you propose we do with her?” 

“What do  I  propose? You’re the one putting her in this situation.”

“That’s unfair.  You  put her in this situation by choosing to live a life of crime.”

An angry grunt. 

Silence.


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“OK, you want to know what I propose? I propose you let me go.”

“You know that’s out of the question.”

“Why?”

“You’re a criminal and I must enforce the law.” 

“Why?” 

“Because you’re a threat to public safety.”

Valjean chuckled. “Am I? What if I can prove I’m not?”

“First of all, you’ve already proved you are. You’ve been tried in a court of law. Also, it’s not for me to decide. I enforce the law. You broke it. End of story.” 


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“Don’t you believe people can change, Javert?” 

“No.”

“Well. I pity you.” 

Silence. 

“I can’t very well leave the child here. Tell me what to do with her.” 

“I cannot believe you are asking for my help. No, demanding my help. So that you can arrest me.” 

“I’m demanding that you make a plan” -- Javert, angrily, spun Valjean under his arm -- “to provide care for” -- Cosette applauded the maneuver enthusiastically -- “the child you stole.” 

“I did not ‘steal’ her.”

“Once a thief, always a thief.”


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“You’re the one trying to lock me up. She’s your responsibility now.” 

“I cannot care for a child. I don’t know the first thing about it.” 

“Neither did I, but we have managed so far.”

“Valjean. Are you really suggesting I raise your child?” 

“It’s obvious you care what happens to her, or we wouldn’t be here. I’d already be in a prison cell.” 

“Caring what happens to her and raising her are two very different things. I really do not believe I am the right person to raise a child.”

“I’ll help.”

“You’ll be  in prison .” 

“I’ll escape again.”

“Fuck off.”


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“Is there a couple in town who might adopt her?”

Javert guffawed. “Unlikely. I wouldn’t trust any of the townsfolk even if they did volunteer.”

A pause. 

“I suppose there must be an orphanage somewhere I can send her to.” 

“If you do that, I  absolutely will  break out of prison. Then I’ll hunt you down.” 

“Look, it wouldn’t be my first choice. That’s why I’m asking you for alternatives.” 

Silence.


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“So … you won’t let me go because you believe I’m a menace to society.”

“That’s right.”

“Here’s an idea. Come with me.” 

“What?” 

“You can keep an eye on me. Make sure I don’t do anything unlawful. Help me look after Cosette. It doesn’t even seem like you like it here, so why not?” Valjean was speaking with apparent earnestness. Javert pulled back a bit to look in his eyes, and they seemed utterly sincere. 

“My god. You are off your rocker.” 


 quick quick   slow   slow 


“Do you have a better idea?”

“Yeah. Locking you up. I’ll figure something out for the girl.”

The dance ended; Cosette was running toward them, clapping, throwing her arms around them; Valjean was laughing; Javert was fingering his handcuffs.

Then the saloon doors were thrown open.

“Well, well, well.” It was the self-satisfied voice of the smug sheriff from the next town over. Javert despised the man; he was lax in his enforcement and probably taking bribes from local gangs. Before he had the chance to order the man out of his town, he noticed the men filling in around him, hands on their pistols: Javert’s men. Nearly the whole lot of them. 

“Virgil here --” the barkeep tipped his hat at them, smirking -- “sent us a message, Javert. Seems that the outlaw Valjean was spotted in his establishment.” 

“Yes, I was just --” he produced the handcuffs, waved them around. “Everything’s under control. Go home, Tom.” 

The other sheriff chucked derisively. “We’re not that stupid. Virgil told us you were dancing with him.” 

“Oh, it was just --” 

“Don’t try with any excuses. It makes so much sense. Always knew there was something  off  about you. You were always so obsessed with Valjean, plastering his posters everywhere and shit. Can’t believe it took me so long to realize it was like …  this  .” Here he waved his hand, indicating the two men and Cosette, who was still clinging to them -- but fearfully now. “Christ, you’ve even started a little  family  together.”

Javert fumbled for something to say. “This is a misunderstanding. Let’s just take the prisoner in, and then --” 

“Put the handcuffs away, Javert. You’re wanted for aiding and abetting a criminal. And  you  --” here Tom indicated Valjean with his firearm “-- well, you’re wanted for all sorts of stuff. I’ll read you the list later.” 

Javert looked at Valjean. Valjean raised an eyebrow.

“How’s that proposal sound now, sheriff?”

 

Note: This chapter isn't explicit, but it does involve exotic dancing and gay clubs, so please feel free to skip if that sounds too raunchy for you.

24 December 1989West Hollywood, California

 

It was just Javert’s bad luck to be assigned a missing person’s case on Christmas Eve. But, hell, it wasn’t like he had anywhere else to be. So he tucked the photos into his uniform pocket and drove off to the gay bar where the guy’d been seen last. 

Joy Boys. What a stupid name for a club, he thought, pushing through the doors. He was enveloped by a warm, dark, smoky atmosphere, his ears assaulted by the pounding bass -- an abrupt change from the silent streets. All the straight people were presumably home with their nuclear families, decorating the tree or reading the Bible or whatever it was the straights did.  Javert could hardly move among the clusters of men dancing, talking, smoking. It seemed he wasn’t the only one without anywhere important to be this Christmas. He kept grabbing people by the arm, shouting over the bass, asking if they’d seen or heard anything, but most people shook him off as soon as they saw his uniform. Those who didn’t brush him off had a hell of a lot to say about cops, but not much about his missing person. 

Most of the patrons were transfixed by a number of men dancing on an elevated platform. Go-go boys, they were called, though Javert wasn’t sure how much they had in common with the go-go girls of the 60s. The dancing didn’t seem to involve a high amount of skill; rather, the men seemed to have been chosen for their muscular physique, as well as their willingness to gyrate in front of a crowd dressed in only underwear and a T-shirt cropped above their abs -- a ridiculous garment if there ever was one. Javert observed a couple of patron reactions: Some tucked bills into the elastic of the men’s underwear, even sometimes reached out to touch them. Others, more shy, clustered in groups farther away, but kept sneaking little peeks at the dancers when they thought their friends weren’t looking. 

Feeling unable to compete for the customers’ attention, Javert tried asking the bartender, pulling out his photos and spreading them on the bar. 

“Why are you asking?” the man asked suspiciously, squinting at Javert’s uniform. 

“He’s missing. Last seen here.”

“Ah. That’s unfortunate. Look, I might’ve seen him in here once or twice; he seems a bit familiar. But I can’t tell you any details.”

“You can’t, or you won’t?” 

“I don’t know anything. Honest.” The bartender paused, put down the glass he’d been cleaning. “Look, you seem like a nice enough guy, I guess. For a cop. So I’ll give you some advice: People here, they don’t like the police. You’re not likely to get anywhere wandering aimlessly like you have been. But …” 

“But?” 

The bartender sighed dramatically, as if Javert were really twisting his arm to get this advice out of him. “But you might try asking the go-go boys. They see quite a lot from up there.”

Javert started for the raised platform, but the bartender called him back. 

“Wait -- I don’t mean  now . Ask after their shift is over. They don’t talk while they’re working.” 

“Yeah, I don’t have time for that shit,” Javert growled, making for the platform again.  

He climbed the platform, causing a round of curious “ooooohs” from the customers. (“Great, you notice me  now ,” Javert grumbled.) He tried to approach the dancers, but one by one they shook their heads mutely, gesturing for him to leave. 

The last dancer, though -- he looked familiar. Javert furrowed his brow, refusing to leave, simply staring. He really looked -- yes, he was almost certain that this was a man he’d put in jail a few years ago. A man who, to his knowledge, shouldn’t be out yet. 

The dancer turned to look at him again, forming a question with his eyes. 

“What?” 

“What do you mean, ‘what’?” the man said, finally breaking his silence. The other go-go boys glared at him. “You’re the one staring at me. You’re not even supposed to be up here.”

He kept gyrating, even as he snapped at Javert.  I supposed even ‘go-go boys’ have professional standards to keep up , he thought.

“I need to talk to you after the show.”

“Uh, yeah. A lot of people ‘need’ to talk to me.” 

“No, I -- I’ll have to arrest you if you don’t come with me later. But in the meantime, what can you tell me about this man?” He held up the picture. 

“That sounds illegal. And nothing.”

“You didn’t even look at the photo.” 

The dancer snatched the photo with an exasperated sound, looked it over, handed it back. “Nothing.” 

By this point, Javert was rather pissed off. He raised his voice. “Look, I’m fucking trying to find a missing person. Someone who came to this bar. A gay man. Say what you want about the police, we can argue that at another time, but I’m fucking trying to help the community here and no one can be bothered to tell me shit!” 

The man stared at him, still gyrating, still silent.  Un-fucking-believable. 

Then he took the picture again, stopped dancing. Confused boos started to spread across the crowd. 

“THERE’S A MISSING PERSON. A JOY BOYS REGULAR,” the dancer shouted. The crowd fell silent. The other go-go boys stopped moving, looking baffled. This was clearly unprecedented. 

 Javert noticed that the man was promoted to a Joy Boys ‘regular’, which he was not at all certain of. But he kept silent. 

“THIS MAN HERE, OFFICER JAVERT, NEEDS INFORMATION. TAKE A LOOK AT HIS PHOTO. TELL HIM WHAT YOU KNOW.” The dancer handed the photo back. 

“I didn’t tell you my name.”

The go-go boy winked at him. 


 How dare --  


His thoughts were cut off by some sort of chant the crowd had taken up. The other go-go boys, who had started to gyrate again, slowed to a stop, looking disappointed. 

Javert couldn’t make out the words the patrons were shouting. “What are they saying?” 

“They’re saying you need to dance for it. Which seems only fair.” He peered at Javert. “You really should take that shirt off, though.” 

Infuriated, Javert started unbuttoning.

24 December 2022

Generic Hotel, U.S.A.

 

The D.J. 's set was killing, the light displays were fantastic, the night was young, and Javert was happy. 

He had spent a decade or so squirreling (hah) away money for a high-quality fursuit, and finally talked himself into commissioning a stunning gray wolf. He had bought tickets to his first furry convention. He had really let his worries go while in suit, feeling less like Javert the cop and more like Javert the guard dog. And really, wasn’t a guard dog what he was always meant to be? Wasn’t this suit just his true form? Nothing, he knew, would ever beat the thrill of donning the wolf head and body and looking in the mirror and seeing the person he truly felt he was. 

And, best of all, he was dancing with a cute raccoon. A really cute racoon. A really, really cute raccoon. Javert was giddy. He never wanted this night to end. 

“I just feel like I’ve always been a guard dog, you know? It’s my true nature.” As he was saying this to the raccoon, the logical flaw hit him and he face-palmed -- surprising himself when he remembered it was, actually, a face-paw. “I mean, I guess wolves aren’t guard dogs. But they’re the predecessors of guard dogs! Oh, god, you must think I’m stupid.”

He was grateful that the wolf head hid his blush. 

“No, no, it totally makes sense,” the raccoon said. “I’ve always felt like a trash thief. I get it.” 

 

Later, the raccoon invited him up to his hotel room for a drink. They each took off their heads. They stared at each other.

“You can’t be fucking serious.”