Title: When All Is Said and Done
Work ID: 43880937
Author: lucelafonde
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Outtakes, Missing Scene
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Summary:
Integrates into "Acts of Kindness"Filled prompts for missing scenes of that fic, so I would definitely recommend reading that first.

Work text:

Filled prompt: "the scene where Valjean had to explain to Cosette why Javert is gone"; requested by ConstanceComment

Valjean stared after the closed door for what felt like ten lifetimes before he finally forced his heavy feet to drag over the floor and went towards Cosette’s room. He stopped right in front of it, leaning forward to listen to her breathing through the wood; he heard nothing, but the knowledge that she was in there was enough to calm his racing heart.

Forcefully composing himself, he stopped to think for a moment, ignoring the roaring beast in his chest demanding to be let out. What should he do next? Javert had made it very clear that he would not hesitate to arrest him come morning. He had to go; that was it. Leave, abandon this place and start anew.

Again.

Without Javert.

A pained sound escaped his throat and he slid to the cold ground. Leaning against Cosette’s bedroom door, he dragged his knees up, put his arms on them, and let his head fall.

An hour might have passed by the time the shaking had stopped, and no more tears were coming. Valjean was exhausted, and he thought he could never gather the strength to leave the floor. Only when he heard an animal, a cat most likely, but Valjean wasn’t sure —— he perceived and felt nothing in this moment —— did he stir and force himself to stand.

So far so good.

He took a couple of unsteady steps towards his bedroom and thought he might die. There was no way he would be able to enter without breaking the remains of his heart into pieces, he knew it well. There were too many memories, too many ghosts of the not-so-recent past present to haunt him.

Entering was impossible.

What should he do then? He had to get inside. He had to pack for his journey, and all his belongings were inside that room, but he could not bring himself to do it. Instead, he went into his study, where he kept the things he had not wished Javert to see, and packed the candlesticks he could not bear to leave behind. He also took all the money he could find, stuffing it into his pockets, and walked back to where he had started.

When he opened the door to Cosette’s room, she was sound asleep, as expected, and Valjean despaired at the sight. How could he possibly tell her what had just occurred? Informing her of his past was unthinkable; she would never agree to travel with a convicted criminal.

What else could he say then? Javert’s absence would be noted, even if the girl agreed to moving away from this town and into another. How could he explain to Cosette that her father had gone? He neither wished to put any blame on Javert, nor to break the girl’s heart.

How should he presume?

He sat down on the edge of Cosette’s bed with a heavy heart. The sudden shift of the mattress woke the girl slowly, and she looked up at him with drowsy eyes, uncertain of whether she was still dreaming or not.

“Papa?” she asked sleepily, rubbing carelessly over her face to wake up. “What’s going on? Is it morning already?”

Valjean smiled sadly down at her, forcing the tears threatening to gather in his eyes away, and said softly: “No, Cosette. It is still dark outside, but you need to wake up; it is important.”

“What’s going on?” the girl asked, instantly alert. She hastily sat upright and looked around. “Is everything all right?” Then, looking closer at him, she said with a frown: “You don’t look well, papa. Are you sick?”

“Ah,” Valjean breathed. “Is it that bad? Well. You should know. I should tell you.” He stopped, swallowing heavily, and looked around. He couldn’t bear to meet her eyes when the lies spewed out of his mouth.

“Cosette, we need to leave at once,” he said, and before she could interrupt him, he added, “there is a dangerous criminal at large, and Javert wants us to go.”

“What?” Cosette frowned, confused. “What happened? Where is father?”

“He is trying to catch him,” Valjean said and convinced himself he wasn’t lying, just bending the ugly truth to preserve the innocence of a child. “Nobody else can, you know how good he is at his job.”

“But why do we have to leave?” the girl pressed, squinting at her father. “What is going on? You’re hiding something!”

Valjean sighed heavily and dragged her small body into a gentle embrace, putting his chin on her head so he could avoid looking at her when he said: “Javert thinks that criminal might want to hurt us. They have a long history, and he doesn’t want to put us in danger. We need to go, Cosette, there is no other way.”

She considered his words for a long moment in eerie silence, even the animals outside remaining quiet, and said eventually: “But if the man is so dangerous, then father won’t be safe either! Where is he? We must go!”

Cosette jerked away from Valjean, hastily jumping out of bed and grabbed a bag from her closet, throwing everything she could find inside.

“Quick, papa!” she said, turning half towards him but not stopping in her motions, “You need to pack too!”

Valjean smiled sadly in the moonlight, leaning back on the bed, and watched her gather her belongings. When she was finished, she turned around and regarded him with a cross look on her face.

“You didn’t pack,” she noticed with some annoyance. “You are impossible! Why are you still here? Go!”

Valjean didn’t move. Instead, he sighed heavily and said: “It matters not; I won’t be taking anything except this.” He held out the small bag containing his candle sticks for Cosette to see. “If you’re finished, we shall leave.”

“I’m done,” the girl nodded eagerly and, grabbing Catherine, moved towards the door. “But where is father?”

This was the hard part. Valjean had no idea how to go about it, for no matter what he said, Cosette was sure to be heartbroken. After a long moment had passed, raising the girl’s suspicions, he decided to follow through with the lie he had created and said gently: “He can’t come with us.”

Cosette stared at him with wide eyes, caught between disbelief and anger, and wouldn’t get out a word after the shock.

“You need to understand,” Valjean said desperately and dropped to his knees before her. “He has to catch his criminal. He can’t be with us before he has done so.”

“Why not?” Cosette asked quietly, trembling with unshed tears, and clutched Catherine tightly to her chest. “Does he not love us anymore?”

Valjean started, staring at the girl in horror, and said quickly: “No. No! Cosette, he loves you very much; don’t ever doubt that. There is nothing as important to him as you, and that is exactly why he has to stay. He wants to protect you, and if he comes with us, he will put you in danger.” He looked at her quietly for a moment, noticing that she had finally allowed the tears to fall, and said as gently as he could through his trembling voice: “Do not ask that of him.”

Cosette said nothing; she stood silently in the darkness, shaking violently, but not a sound escaped her lips. It took her a few minutes to calm herself, but once she had regained her composure, she sniffed loudly and mumbled: “He will come back if he catches that criminal?”

Valjean smiled bitterly at the question, wondering if she would still be so eager to see the man behind bars if she knew of his identity, and said with forced reassurance in his tone: “Yes, Cosette; he will.”

 

Prompt:"something where Cosette misbehaved and Valjean and Javert had to decide whether/how to discipline her"

When Cosette left the building, Javert was already waiting for her with a dark expression on his face. His eyes screamed murder, and his lips were drawn into a thin line. Cosette swallowed heavily and moved slowly towards him, getting less and less distance behind her with every step so that it seemed to her she might have stopped moving altogether. Alas, sooner or later she had to arrive at her destination, and when she did, Javert was still not looking pleased.

“So,” he said lowly, “care to tell me what happened?”

Cosette looked very much like no, she really did not, but her father’s eyes told her that not answering would be an exquisitely bad idea, so she mumbled: “I got in a fight.”

Javert sighed, dropped to his knees, and, taking her face in his hands, forcing her to look at him, said gently: “Why on earth would you do that? Look at you! At least tell me the other guy is worse off.” He carefully wiped away some blood that was dripping down her lips and shook his head with a heavy sigh. “I thought you were better behaved than that.”

“I am!” Cosette said, twisting her lips into a pout. “It wasn’t my fault! Jacques said…” She stopped, eyes wide, and looked anxiously around as if she was expecting someone would suddenly fall from the sky. When she saw no one, she leaned in very closely to Javert and whispered: “He said you are… You and papa… That you were…” She again broke off, uncertain how to say it because she was averse to using the exact phrasing and did not know how else to put it. Eventually, prompted by her father’s stern eyes, she said in a tiny voice: “He said you were an abomination and that God would surely punish you.”

Javert started, staring at Cosette in surprise, and shared an uncomfortable moment with her.

The girl knew, of course, that her parents were together like everyone else’s parents, but she had no concept of what that might entail and just how he and the mayor were different from the married couples of the town. Her innocence and inherent kind heart had made it impossible for her to find anything odd about her fathers being together, and if she had noticed that she was the only child with two male parents, she had never mentioned or paid any attention to it. Cosette was, of course, familiar with the bible, but Javert and Madeleine had done their utmost to protect her from preachers who advocated views they disagreed with to keep her unsullied from those who twisted the words of God. Actually, it had been Madeleine who had decided this; Javert was not a religious man himself, and as such cared little about what the followers of the church thought about him or his lifestyle, but Madeleine thought it would be better for Cosette to protect her from public opinion.

Their relationship was a secret, naturally, because even if a lifestyle like theirs was no longer prosecuted, it was still very much frowned upon. Javert was curious as to how this Jacques had found out about them, but not wholly surprised; people talked, and when he had moved in with the mayor, there had been some rumours which had died down very quickly as soon as the townspeople realised that neither Javert nor Madeleine would rise to the bait.

Feeling inadequate to deal with this situation, Javert cleared his throat, straightened, and said: “Well, then. Let’s go home. I can’t wait for your papa to find out.”

“He doesn’t know?” Cosette asked curiously, quickly matching her stride to her father’s.

“No,” Javert shook his head, feeling a deep tiredness settle in his bones, “one of the women who work in the school was sent to get him, but he was out, so I came instead.”

“Are you mad, father?” Cosette asked quietly, looking at the ground with an unhappy expression on her face.

“Let’s just…” Javert breathed in deeply, chanced a glance at the girl, and continued, “Let’s just wait for your papa, all right?”

Javert felt he could not possibly do this; he had no idea how to discipline a child. Then again, he had never had to know. Cosette had always behaved exemplary, never stepping out of line, never questioning orders, and always a warm smile on her lips. He was uncertain how to presume from here. What should he do? He could already hear Madeleine’s voice in his mind, telling him how harsh he had been to Cosette, and that he had made her cry.

Shuddering internally, the Inspector decided to let the matter rest for now; he would wait until they had arrived home, and then he could say everything he wanted to say, knowing the mayor would doubtlessly stop him before he went too far.

Yes, that was a good plan; he already felt his mood lighten.

The same thing could not be said of Cosette. She walked guiltily alongside him, not even noticing the flowers and birds they encountered as she usually would. She was quiet throughout the entire walk, and once they had reached the house, she dejectedly went inside, head bent, and waited silently in a corner to be punished.

Javert found this behaviour odd, for he had never had to do any such thing before, and neither had Madeleine. Both of them shuddered at the thought of raising so much as a finger to harm the girl, and even yelling seemed impossible when looking at that angelic face. Cosette inspired goodness as much as she radiated it, and Javert wondered why she would behave as if he constantly gave her a good beating now.

“Javert?” a voice came from the study. “Is that you.”

“Yes,” the Inspector sighed, “you might want to join us in the hall. Or rather, we will come to you.” Javert gently directed Cosette into the direction of Madeleine’s private office, and looked sternly at her when she hesitated on the doorstep. Eyes directed at the ground, she finally moved inside and came to a halt a few steps away from the mayor.

“Cosette?” Madeleine frowned, looking between her and the Inspector with confusion plainly written on his face, “What are you doing here? Shouldn’t you be in school?”

Javert snorted, dropped into a chair, and, crossing his arms over his chest, said: “One might be compelled to think so.”

Madeleine stared at both of them with uncomprehending eyes, prompting Javert to explain himself with a raised eyebrow.

“A woman of the school was sent to tell you to pick Cosette up,” he said slowly, deliberately, observing the girl intently as he did, “since you were out to deal with that farmer and his ridiculous request —— I still think it’s a mistake to give into his demands; you are too soft, as always —— well, anyway, I was here, so I went in your stead. It was very illuminating.”

Madeleine sighed heavily, tiredly rubbed his eyes and said: “Will someone please tell me what the deuce is going on? Or do you want me to guess?”

“You would never guess right,” Javert said, shaking his head, “I might as well tell you; Cosette was asked to go home because she got into a fight with one of the boys during the break.”

Silence filled the room as soon as the Inspector had closed his mouth. Madeleine was staring at Javert, who in turn was observing Cosette, who herself was intently looking at the floor. When it became clear that Javert was quite content with saying nothing further, and Cosette was too busy pretending she was far away, Madeleine carefully licked his lips and said:

“I would accuse you of having made a tasteless joke, but I know better than to hope for that.”

“That is fortunate, for you would be in for a severe disappointment.”

“Cosette,” Madeleine sighed, finally turning away from the Inspector, “what happened?”

The girl looked briefly up to meet the mayor’s eyes before guiltily fixing the ground again.

“I don’t want to say,” she mumbled, shrinking into herself as far as she could.

“She has been quite terrible since I picked her up,” Javert explained, looking as if he had all the time in the world; Madeleine thought he might very well be prepared to remain in this position the entire night if that was what it took for Cosette to speak.

The mayor, realising that Javert’s tactic might work on a sleazy adult, but not on a frightened child, stood from his seat and carefully approached Cosette, attempting not to spook her.

Kneeling in front of her, he said slowly: “Cosette. Please just tell me what happened. I promise I won’t be mad.”

“You’re never mad,” the girl said quietly, expertly avoiding his eyes, “but father is.”

“Ha!” Javert grunted, leaning further back in his seat, “you haven’t seen me grumpy yet, girl. If you don’t want that to change, I suggest you save us all a lot of time and just come out with it.”

Cosette stared at him with wide eyes, clutching tightly to her dress, and quivered. Madeleine glared sternly at Javert, slightly shaking his head, and turned to the child with a gentle expression on his face when he said: “Ignore him. He is abominable. I don’t know why I put up with it, but that is not your concern. Just tell me what happened; you know I will be very cross with Javert if he misbehaves.”

“That doesn’t seem fair,” the Inspector frowned, finally leaning forward in his chair, “I’m not the one who hit a kid this morning.”

“You know I have no issue with letting you wait outside,” Madeleine said patiently, promptly silencing Javert, who suddenly looked as if he had a lot to say. “Now, Cosette. Tell me what happened.”

Fidgeting under her father’s gaze, the girl said so quietly Madeleine almost didn’t hear her: “Jacques said you were a monster and that you and father would surely go to hell.”

Madeleine started and looked dumbfounded at the girl, who said nothing further. Confused, the mayor turned towards Javert, who shrugged and said lightly: “Apparently young Jacques doesn’t agree with our… ehm… Lifestyle. He believes himself to be a suitable judge for that.”

“You mean he… knows?” Madeleine frowned, sharing a dark look with the Inspector.

“I suppose he guessed. Maybe his parents said something,” Javert shrugged again, seemingly unbothered, “anyway, I am not concerned with ‘Jacques.’ What concerns me is that my daughter apparently thinks assaulting someone is an appropriate reaction to jibes and the talk of morons.”

“Papa said you’re not allowed to use that word,” Cosette mumbled, but there was an infinitesimal smile on her lips when she briefly looked up to meet Javert’s eyes.

“Well,” the Inspector drawled out, “since today is apparently the day we simply ignore rules, I figured I should take advantage of that.”

Madeleine squinted darkly at him, but Cosette was grinning now, and when the mayor wasn’t looking, Javert quickly winked at the girl, causing her to giggle.

“You are impossible, both of you,” Madeleine sighed, brushing Cosette’s hair behind her ear. “I’m afraid it’s too late for your father, but there is hope for you yet. I never thought I’d have to say this, but you KNOW what you did was wrong, don’t you?”

The girl nodded quietly, guiltily observing her shoes again.

“This will have consequences, young lady,” Javert said, finally abandoning his chair to loom over Cosette with crossed arms. “I won’t be raising a little delinquent.”

The girl started visibly, staring at the Inspector out of wide eyes, and, throwing herself at him, shrieked: “No! Please, I promise I’ll be good, father! Don’t take me back! Please!”

Javert and Madeleine exchanged a surprised look, neither of them having been prepared for such an outburst, and stared at Cosette, uncertain how to proceed.

“I won’t—— I didn’t——” Javert broke off with an annoyed grunt, feeling unfit to deal with a sobbing child, and tried to pry the girl’s hands off his coat to push her into Madeleine’s direction. “Cosette,” he sighed, realising that she would not be swayed, “I will never take you back. They would have to kill me before I would let them lay hands on you again, and I doubt they would be very much successful in that endeavour; you are quite safe.”

“Really?” she sniffed, not easing her grip, but shaking less violently now.

“Really.”

“Cosette,” Madeleine said gently, putting a hand on her shoulder to calm her, “you know we could never live without you. What would be possibly do everyday if you weren’t there to keep us company? No, I’m afraid you’re stuck with us; but we will not tolerate such behaviour again, is that understood?”

“Yes,” the girl nodded eagerly, letting go of Javert’s coat to dry her cheeks with her sleeve. “I won’t touch Jacques again, I promise.”

“I doubt he’ll bother you again,” Javert said thoughtfully, “I think you put the fear of God in him.”

“I did not,” Cosette said bashfully, but there was a small smile playing around her lips.

The Inspector nodded knowingly, exchanging a quick look with Madeleine before he cleared his throat and said: “That was not what I had in mind when I taught you how to defend yourself, but I am somewhat pleased to know that you remembered what I showed you.”

“Javert!” Madeleine frowned, throwing him a dangerous look.

“What?” the Inspector shrugged, meeting his dark eyes easily, “Would you rather she be a victim of a crime? It is important for her to learn these things.”

“She’s ten years old!” Madeleine cried. “What she needs is not to get thrown out of school because she assaulted a fellow student!”

“There is that,” Javert conceded, glaring at Cosette again. “That was very bad behaviour, young lady. It will have consequences.”

The girl nodded guiltily, biting her lip, and turned towards Madeleine. Her voice was unsteady when she said: “Jacques was wrong, wasn’t he? You won’t go to hell, will you?”

Her parents exchanged a long look, and eventually the mayor said slowly: “There are those who believe that people like Jacques are right. I, for one, like to think that God is forgiving, and that he loves all of us, no matter who we love in return. As long as your heart is true, Cosette, God will know it and embrace you with open arms; never doubt that.”

“But then why would Jacques think that?” the girl frowned, clearly annoyed. “He must be a moron.”

“Cosette!” Madeleine exclaimed in shock, throwing a dark look at Javert. “That’s it. You just volunteered to help with my convict rehabilitation program. Both of you!”

Javert stared at him in horror, clearly displeased with the notion. “You are still insisting on doing that? I thought we talked about this.”

“We did; I never said I agreed with you,” Madeleine shrugged.

“I will have nothing to do with that.”

“You will,” Madeleine said with conviction, “because you are a bad example for our daughter, and she has to learn that bad behaviour gets punished; she knows how much you despise the idea of integrating former convicts into society. She will learn never to misbehave again.”

“You are the devil,” Javert murmured and walked out of the room with some annoyance, knowing that Madeleine had spoken true. “The boy was right, your place is in hell; he just didn’t know you were running it.”

 

Prompt: "a bit of Valjean's sadness when Cosette is off to marry Marius and Javert ends up comforting him" requested by Soldan.

Valjean had put on a brave face during the entirety of Marius’ rehabilitation, had encouraged Cosette to visit as much as possible, had eagerly discussed wedding plans with his daughter and smiled courteously at her groom-to-be. Now, on the night of the wedding, he felt his face freeze when he tried to lift the corners of his mouth, and the music and laughter in the great hall seemed to be crushing his eardrums to the point of deafness.

Javert regarded him with a frown so small the other guests undoubtedly missed it the entire evening, but said nothing. He resolutely did not mention anything other than his utmost happiness to see Cosette in good hands, despite his lingering wariness of Marius, and wished the couple all the good fortune God may bestow upon them. He meddled idly with the guests, conversing as little as possible with them while remaining polite, only Monsieur Gillenormand himself capable of capturing the Inspector’s attention for more than a moment.

If Javert felt suspicious towards Marius, he adored his grandfather. Whenever Valjean and Cosette came to visit the recovering boy, the Inspector would be swayed to accompany them and ultimately end up conversing with the old man of the house. Where Marius’ views were revolutionary and explosive, his grandfather’s were laid back and conventional. Javert approved of the old man’s political tendencies, even if neither of them mentioned them towards Marius, who seemed to be all but looking for a reason to quarrel with his grandfather, and enjoyed his company.

Even so, when everyone settled to have dinner, Javert noticed that Valjean had disappeared and made his apologies to the old man, venturing outside the house to search for Cosette’s father.

He didn’t have to look long; Valjean was leaning against the fence, torn between leaving the premises and returning to the party. Javert smiled slightly at the sight, carefully approaching the other and said lowly so as not to spook him: “It astounds me that you were ever capable of deceiving me; your face is giving away everything.”

“You do have the advantage of having known me all my adult life,” Valjean reminded him, briefly looking over his shoulder to meet his steady gaze, “and I’m tired of hiding.”

Javert nodded knowingly, stopping right beside the other and said: “She’s not gone, you know. You can easily visit whenever you like.”

“It’s not the same,” Valjean sighed, rubbing his aching forehead. “She’ll forget about me soon enough.”

The Inspector frowned at him, quickly looking around to see if they were alone, and carefully took the other’s hand in his. “She could never. Do you truly think so little of Cosette? She would be very cross with you if she knew.”

“Ha! To see her glare at me with anger one more time!” Valjean chuckled, grateful for the warm hand enclosing his. “It will all change now, won’t it?”

“I would expect so,” Javert said with some contemplation, “but not everything. And not always.”

“I wish I had your confidence.”

The Inspector chuckled, swirling the other around so they were facing each other and, putting a heavy hand on his shoulder, said: “You have. I will not believe that you think so little of Cosette as to expect her to simply forget you. How could she? Yes, she will be busy in the first weeks, adjusting to her new life as Madame Pontmercy and all this entails, and she will not have time for her foolish old fathers, but that is to be expected.”

“Until a minute ago I could have sworn you were trying to lift my spirits,” Valjean said in a scolding tone, a small smile playing around his lips.

“I’m getting there,” Javert said lazily, drawing circles with his thumb on the other’s palm in his. “Once she has properly settled into her new position, her husband will take to working again, and you will have all the time in the world to spend with her. Do not concern yourself so. And do not belittle Cosette in such a manner.”

“It sounds so easy when you say it,” Valjean sighed, allowing his head to fall forward to rest on the Inspector’s shoulder. “Allow me to miss her, will you? I cannot turn it off, your rationality be damned.”

Javert shook his head in exasperation, but brought up his hand to encircle the other’s shoulders and whispered into his ear: “You are infuriatingly emotional sometimes. Why would you torture yourself so? It is exasperating.”

“But you like it nonetheless,” Valjean laughed quietly into his shoulder, tightly hugging the Inspector to himself, “don’t deny it.”

“God help me, but I do,” Javert sighed, lightly nibbling the other’s ear, causing the man in his arms to blush a furious shade of red, “it seems we are drawn to what we lack.”

“Mmh,” Valjean mused, “you are probably right. I have no other explanation for why else I would possibly put up with you.”

Javert laughed, drawing back just enough to meet the other’s eyes and said with a distinct twinkle to his own: “If you are insinuating that you got the worse deal…”

“My dear Inspector, would I ever?” Valjean said with exaggerated indignation and put a light kiss on Javert’s lips to stop the man from arguing. “We should go back inside,” the former convict murmured, extracting himself from the other’s arms with tangible unwillingness, “before somebody notices.”

“And who would that be?” Javert asked curiously, making it as difficult as he could for the other to escape his grasp. “Cosette has already forgotten all about us, don’t you know?”

“You are impossible.”

“Mmh, maybe,” the Inspector said vaguely, stealing a quick kiss from the other, “but I’m glad you realise how ridiculous you were being when I came out here.”

Valjean sighed in frustration, turned on the spot, and stomped back into the house with a murmured “I definitely got the worse deal.”

 