Title: To Find, To Be Lost
Work ID: 43956591
Author: all_things_it_devours
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Euphrasie “Cosette” Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Euphrasie "Cosette" Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Additional Tags: Canon Era, Post-Seine, Javert Lives, Valjean Also Lives, Canon-Typical suicidal ideation, Former Enemies to ???, Canon-Typical Violence, Canon-Typical Self-Esteem Levels (Low), Tags make it sound darker than it is, everyone will be more or less okay. eventually., Elements of sickfic, Elements of casefic, Brick and musical in a blender, no beta we die like les amis, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Other additional characters to be added, Slow Burn, POV Alternating
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 7/?

Summary:
After delivering Marius, Valjean follows Javert into the Seine, and both emerge more or less alive. Now they must stay that way, as the vultures of Paris prepare to feast on all that the barricades leave in their wake.
The past has an irritating habit of crawling out of its grave.

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


There was no way to survive a fall into the water from this height, and no way to stop his fall once it had begun. Of those two things, and those two things alone, Javert was certain. His eyes fixed upon the cold stars above, he tipped backwards, relinquishing himself to gravity’s firm embrace.

He thought, for an instant, that a familiar face, with a halo of white hair luminous in the moonlight, stared down at him from the bridge.

How appropriate that the accursed convict should haunt him even in death.

 

-

 

If ever there was a sign from God, Valjean thought, surely this was it. Upon depositing the boy Marius at his grandfather’s home, still reeking of gunpowder and the Paris sewers, he had found himself directionless, wandering through the silent night streets. It was clear enough that Cosette had no further need for him—it would be easier for the both of them if he were to go quietly into the grasp of justice, leaving her without her father’s stain.

He would not last long, returned to the galleys, but that was a consolation in the face of the dread which wracked his body at the memory of the lash. Nearly twenty years of freedom would have to serve, not far from a score of following the Bishop’s virtue as well as he was able. Ten years of raising Cosette to be the best of herself, then watching as she was drawn away by the world. There was nought left for him, not here.

It was with this in mind that he set out in search of the one who had hunted him through the years, only to hesitate in the shadow of an alley as the man paced above the Seine.

Drawing in a shuddering breath, Valjean approached, footfalls light so as to avoid startle and having that pistol leveled on him too quickly.

As it turns out, he needn’t have bothered. For as he reached the pavement of the bridge, his hunter toppled backwards even as he hurried forward just in time to see an outstretched hand disappear into the dark water.

A sign from God, perhaps, that he was not meant to be imprisoned again. He had already spared Javert’s life once, sending him off into the night with a harmless shot into the air. Valjean had no obligation to do so a second time—all he had to do was walk away, and he would be blameless. Nobody could judge him for letting the man drown, not after all these years of chase. Twenty years, and nineteen on top of that, and he would finally be free.

Decision made, Valjean stripped off his coat and leapt into the roiling Seine below.

He came to the surface sputtering for air, looking around for anyone else still living in the water. Bitterly, he recalled the black greatcoat Javert seemed so often to be wearing—its sodden weight would be doing the man no favors. Splashing sounded downstream, and without stopping to consider how poorly this whole endeavor may turn out, he dove.

Whether by luck or by fate, his hand snagged on fabric within a few moments. Valjean heaved the drowning man towards the surface, and received a glancing blow to the nose for his troubles. He doubted Javert even recognized him, but the injury smarted all the same.

Thank God the river was narrow here—he towed his load towards the bank. Javert had stopped flailing; hopefully he was not now risking his life for a corpse. Deadweight, he thought, and would have cut away the woolen coat dragging them both down had he a free hand with which to reach his blade.

The current eased somewhat as they neared the edge of the river, Valjean putting in one final burst of strength to tug Javert clear of the water. He lay silent and still in the mud, his clammy skin making him no less like a corpse than the boys Valjean had fought to defend only some hours ago. After a moment’s consideration, Valjean applied sudden pressure to his chest and abdomen before turning him on his side, which seemed to have some effect; the man began to hack up river water and coughed for several minutes thereafter, one bare hand clawing weakly at the soft ground as if to strangle the very Earth in lieu of an easier target. He was however unresponsive to any urgings on Valjean’s part but for the august lines marked between his brows; Valjean wondered if that were not perhaps the permanent state of his face, worn in by decades of severity.

Regardless, Javert spoke not, rather allowing himself to be hoisted to his feet and half-carried back towards the bridge. The water, or perhaps the preceding events of the past several hours, had rendered him insensate; his state seemed to be one of trembling shock, which only intensified as they moved. 

Upon making the bridge, Valjean took a moment to retrieve his coat, leaving Javert to sway dangerously on his feet in the moment where he stood alone. The dry wool was a comforting barrier against the cool night air—though the man he was practically dragging through the streets likely needed the warmth as much as he did, Valjean reasoned that the summer night had little chance of doing permanent damage; it was only practical that the only one of them with any possession of physical faculties (and perhaps mental, as well, given Javert’s clear stupor) be allowed to remain in command of them as long as possible so as to heighten the chances of finding shelter.

But where to go?

The hospital, of course, was out of the question—the most upstanding citizen could hardly walk in dragging the infamous Inspector Javert, beaten and barely lucid after a night and day of city-wide violence, much less a wanted ex-convict.

His dwelling on the Rue de L’Homme Armé, too, could not be trusted; Cosette would be there, and he could not allow his heart’s daughter to witness the shame of his arrest, even if the sight of her would be a comfort to him. If by some ill luck she learned of his past—an instance that looked less and less likely with every step he took—he would not have it be from seeing him taken away in chains, nor would he have her be sullied by that past. Not to mention the curious eyes of that bourgeois quarter, an early warning system when he had chosen the location, but now an array of watchers with nothing to keep them quiet in the sight of his coming plight.

No, this would remain, as it always had, between himself and Javert, hunted and hunter—or were those roles now turned on their heads? a duel of two that refused to draw any other into their dance of destruction since the death of Fantine.

It was with a heavy heart, therefore, that he turned his feet towards the hollowed 55 Rue Plumet.

 

Dawn was just beginning to break through the early morning chill when Valjean reached his former home, fumbling in his pockets for the key kept in waiting for a new occupant. The stiff hinges of the front gate, so rarely used, yielded easily enough beneath the combined weight of both men. Valjean staggered, scarce able to support them with one hand clutched around the key, but managed to haul Javert’s limp form to the guest room bed that they had never used. Valjean collapsed at the end of the bed as well and let his head fall into his hands, exhaling hard.

At this point, the man seemed wholly unconscious, though the irregular puffs of air hitting Valjean’s hand when he checked proved he had not been carrying a corpse through the streets. The weight of his bones encouraged Valjean to join him in insensibility, and it was with no small regret that he took to his feet once more.

The faint wisps of sunlight that made their way through the bedroom’s closed drapes provided little useful illumination; looking about the room, he managed to scrounge up a few candle stubs with still enough wick to them that they may be lit, giving him enough light also to kindle also a small fire in the grate. He dared not allow daylight into the room—even with the fence and garden between the apartment and the road, the risk of being spotted by some curious passerby was still too high. If he had the energy to move them to a room less visible from the outside, perhaps- but then, it was not likely that he would be here for long, either; the future once Javert awoke stretched clear as day in front of him: arrest, sentencing, and a short, brutal stint in the galleys before his death, that is, if Javert did not simply kill him outright. Given the man’s punishing adherence to the law, the latter seemed unlikely, merciful as it would be.

The knife hanging at his hip hung heavier, suddenly, and he uttered a brief prayer before unsheathing it, as if its very weight in his hand would tempt him to use it against flesh rather than as leverage against the water-tightened buttons of Javert’s sodden coat. Being wrapped in the cold, sodden wool would do the man no favors in recovery; the lighter linen he wore underneath would dry quickly enough, and Valjean was unwilling to strip him further. He took the heavy coat to what had been the dining room; the wooden chairs remained as they had been left around the table, and on one of those chairs he arranged it to dry. Water, its color turned dark by the low light, began to pool below.

A horribly familiar clinking sounded, and Valjean flinched, whirling around—surely Javert had not already awakened, by God, he thought he had at least the time to rest—but there was nobody there. He checked the pockets, finding there the length of chain and manacles that had produced the sound. They glinted in the light of the candle, and he held them for some moments, considering. An observer would have taken him for a statue if they had not noticed the short rise and fall of his breast.

It took the rattle of some passing early morning taxi on the cobblestones outside to startle him into action; he crossed to an abandoned cabinet in two swift strides and thrust the restraints inside. Returning to the guestroom, he retrieved also the pistol, rapier, and short blade at Javert’s belt to place in the same location, though if asked, he could not have said with certainty for whose safety he did so.

This accomplished, he ventured to the porter’s cottage in order to retrieve a pair of dry shirts left behind in his flight to the Rue de L’Homme Armé, pulling the first on in place of the soaked one he had been wearing since the barricade. Javert, when not shrouded in that coat of his, had a leaner form than Valjean; the shirt would likely be loose on him—if the man even deigned to accept it, if for some reason he did not bind him immediately upon waking.

The morning dew glistened under his feet, far enough removed from the slickness of the sewers that it did not trouble him. The back of the house was peaceful; Valjean found that with his fate so clear before him, he was as well.

Upon returning, he checked the front door to ensure it was locked—it was well that he did so, though he would not know this until later—and returned to the guest room, securing that door behind him as well and placing the extra shirt near the bed. 

Selecting for himself the more comfortable of the two dusty chairs that remained, Jean Valjean allowed himself, finally, to sleep.

 

-

 

Coughing awoke him—a horrible, racking cough that put him in mind of those unfortunates afflicted by a winter’s chill settled in the lungs who he encountered on occasion in his work as M. Madeleine. Indeed, still addled by sleep, his mind was for a moment cast back to the weeks of tending to Fantine in her slow death, a decade prior, and he sprang from his contorted repose in alarm. Once his vision had adjusted enough to recognize the true source, he was arrested in his step.

There were still a few rays of sunlight coming through the drapes, though the time of day could not be told (morning, they did not yet realize the price of a day exhaustion had extracted); in the faint flickering cast by the dying embers, Javert’s face framed by uncharacteristically messy greying hair resembled nothing so much as that of a wolf caught in a trap, his eyes shadowed with a strange combination of pain and rage. Torn between keeping a healthy distance and aiding the man, Valjean took an abortive step forward, but by the time he was within an arm’s reach, the cough had subsided to a slight wheeze.

“ You, ” Javert said with all the gravity of a judge, and, inexplicably, began to laugh. The stones of Toulon have carried the reverberations of many such laughs, uncontrolled and jagged as they are, with the edge of a sob. Valjean recognized it as one that might have come from his own mouth in those years.

It was not, he thought, an encouraging sound.

“Me,” he agreed.

“Then it is true what they say, of suicides going to hell. I only wonder how you yourself got here?”

“You are not dead, Javert. Nor,” he said with a slight smile, “am I.” At this, the man looked away, releasing Valjean from his wild gaze and falling back into the bed. “Is it not a better circumstance to be alive then drowned beneath the Seine?” 

“Better? So that you can hold me as your prisoner here, my freedom contingent upon a promise of yours that I will not,  can not , make? You have already disarmed me.”

“Merely a precaution—if I am to face death or imprisonment at your hands, I preferred to do so awake. Your arms are elsewhere in the house, and you are free to retrieve them and do as you will..” When he looked again at Javert, he wasn’t entirely certain the man had even heard him; his eyes were closed as if merely talking was a great ordeal, and a melancholy frown had engraved itself upon his face. 

When he did finally speak again, his voice was rough, and startled Valjean, who assumed Javert had become once more unconscious. “You should have left me in the river.”

Posting this the same day that Les Mis Letters starts let’s go. We're fudging historical CPR methods a bit--chest/abdomen compressions were one of the more recent forms of aid for someone who had drowned (their usage was first recorded in 1829), but I don't know that they'd be employed in quite the same method Valjean does here. Other methods of the time involved putting someone facedown on a trotting horse or having two people use a long cloth wrapped around the victim's chest to force air out of the lungs, where older versions required hanging someone by their feet. (Source)

Valjean and Javert continue to foil each other's intended destinies, though not for lack of trying.

It was only natural that Javert should think himself dead. Between his last sleep and this one, death had wound itself around him as surely as the chafing ropes of the student traitors, drawing closer with every threat of bullet, blade, and stolen breath. The acceptance of his potential fate had gone hand in hand with the acceptance of his assignment as a spy.

(Admittedly, he had not expected to encounter his long-held quarry at the barricade, much less to see the law have such a mockery made of it that he- he! an honorable Inspector who had never once strayed from the law and the Lord- would be given for execution to the ungodly force of chaos that was Jean Valjean.)

(The memory stood vivid in his mind even now: the cold steel scraping ever-so-lightly against the stubble underneath his chin, such that a flick of Valjean’s wrist—a task that required such little force for its enormity in an ordinary man, and required less for a man of Valjean’s strength—would cut through skin with ease to coat the cobblestones in warm blood, proving Javert forever right in a single stroke.

He shuddered to think of how close the man had stood, near enough that he could feel the warmth of Valjean’s breath against his cheek even as he cut through the bonds that held him, freeing and damning him at once.)

(There was enough blood spilled on those streets, after all.)

So it was that he had cheated death enough by the time of his fall. He who had been so unshakable in his convictions of the natural order of things had been struck to the bone, allowing a savage doubt to spring forth. The moment it issued, he was lost; to have his life’s work cast into shadow with the knowledge that having strayed once, he had strayed a thousand times, was intolerable.

Any such harm, any such hypocrisy, was enough to deny one Paradise; that fact he’d long since ingrained in himself. But he could err no further in death, and what more appropriate tormentor than his erstwhile nemesis?

One need scarcely imagine his distaste upon learning of his own survival.

“Why didn’t you?” he asked, rather than voice any of this. Perhaps he managed to infuse enough of it into his tone, for Valjean flinched back slightly before frowning at him.

“It is what any man would have done.”

Javert scoffed. “I have spent the better part of two decades among your beloved fellow men, decent—rare as they are—and otherwise. Believe me,  24601 , very few would risk their own neck for mine.”

“Perhaps they do not know how to swim,” Valjean said lightly, not rising to the barb. “You underestimate the souls you serve.”

“ Perhaps?  I should have known better than to expect an answer from one such as y-“ He broke off in a fit of coughing, choosing instead to glare at the man standing so patiently before him.  Damn this water which could not serve its purpose but to irritate! 

“Rest, Inspector. If you do not intend to clap me in chains this instant, I shall go see about food.” Without giving Javert a chance to tell him he had no appetite, Valjean exited the room, though not without unlocking the door first. Clearly, the man had at least the  capability to hold him prisoner, though he may protest against it in his speech.

Without the distraction of conversation, the lingering chill of the river began to set in once more, and Javert began to shiver at the sensation of still-wet fabric clinging to his frame. Battered by the river, every inch of himself ached; pain permeated, becoming a crescendo in his side and right arm when he tried to move them. Distantly, he realized it was likely broken; a suitable punishment since Valjean had seen fit to force his survival. 

A straight-razor, perhaps—he was already fallen, the lessened dignity could be permitted in the face of efficiency. His pistol, too, was an option, but the powder he carried with him had most certainly been rendered useless with moisture. Not to mention the noise would be rather gauche.

If no other opportunity presented itself, all he needed to do was wait, for the dampness at his side kept turned away from Valjean was warmer than any river water. He would not bleed out, but infection would set in soon, if it hadn’t already—an incautious prod at his side with his working arm did not reveal any difference in temperature or inflammation, but that meant little. It was for this reason that he made no motion to rise; Valjean could be heard moving about the ground level and he doubted he could make his tread as light as was his wont in this state. Occasionally, the man became visible through the door he had left open, but did not seem to be paying any attention to his captive.

He wondered where Valjean had brought him to. Some bolthole the ex-convict kept? The address he so boldly provided when cutting Javert loose? Surely not the home he likely shared with the young girl; this house did not have the feel of one which was currently occupied.

Outside, the tread of Valjean’s step marked a stumble, and Javert heard him utter a curse. The bad leg of his, he assumed; the man had disguised it from all but the most observant at Montreuil sur Mer, but the old limp had been far more pronounced when carrying the weight of that fool schoolboy earlier that night. 

This did not account for Valjean storming into the room some moments later, however.

“Where is it?” he asked, dropping into the chair nearer the bed and leaning forward.

“I have no idea what you’re talking about,” Javert replied.

“You’re injured.”

“It happens to the best of us.” Which I am most certainly not.

“For heaven’s sake- I will not have you die now; my efforts will not be wasted because you got gangrene out of spite.” There was something of the mayor’s command in his voice then; Javert reluctantly sat up fully and turned to face Valjean. He swore again, and Javert looked down, taking stock of the bloodied rent in the lower right of his shirt. The movement caused his shivering, subsided temporarily as he pondered his end, to return in full force, and he wished for the shelter of his coat.

It was that garment, in fact, which had betrayed him: the blood collected on it during the slog to the Rue Plumet had mingled with the water dripping as it dried in Valjean’s dining room, and in the process of retrieving food, he had noticed the improper color; this had been the origin of the stumble and curse Javert had heard.

“I- wait here,” Valjean ordered, glancing about the room without any clear reason before striding out.  Where does he think I’m supposed to go?  If he was searching for bandages, the convict had left behind a shirt that would have sufficed; Javert had used his own in past encounters that wouldn’t have allowed him access to proper medical supplies. (Not that he often availed himself of the resource regardless; there were always more important things to focus on than being coddled in a hospital while an injury—usually a mere scratch like his current one—healed. Better a scarce bed go to one of the people he protected than it be wasted on him.)

Perhaps the man had too much pride in his belongings to use it as such, though the idea didn’t ring quite true. Say what he might about the erstwhile convict, greed had never been one of his vices, even when risen to a lofty position as M. Madeleine. (When he had been the inspector assigned to the city, Javert had begrudgingly respected that in his mayor. Afterwards, he’d realized the lack of valuables just made Valjean’s running from justice easier.)

Far more likely that the man had brought it as a change of clothes—for the fabric was dry to the touch—and forgotten to actually make use of it.

Valjean returned then, carrying strips of white cloth, a pail, and a small bottle of what was likely disinfectant of some sort. The shirt and cravat he wore, Javert noted, were different from the ones worn at the barricade, which meant the extra shirt remained a mystery.

“I can go find a doctor, if you would prefer?” Valjean said in response to Javert’s increased scowl.

“No. If you insist on trying to patch me up for some asinine reason, I can take care of it myself.” He held out his functioning hand for the bandages, but Valjean balked.

“Take care of it yourself- you’ll tear yourself open again before you can even get a bandage on it!” 

“It is no matter to me; it should not be any matter to you.” He paused, considering. To be sure, Valjean’s absence may allow him time to retrieve his knife and be done with it, broken arm be damned, but there were too many unknowns—how well hidden his arms were, how long he would have to search, whether the ex-convict was even telling the truth about his being able to access them in the first place. (He had seemed honest enough earlier—surprisingly so, for one who should already be running once more.) Besides, it would be dishonorable to make Valjean give up his money for nothing; the justice of the law he had betrayed, but those shreds of principle he could still cling to.

 

-

 

“You would not fetch a doctor for one already dead. Do it yourself if you must, but do not waste francs I cannot pay,” Javert finally said, staring him in the eye.

“Very well.” His eyebrows rose—perhaps he had not expected Valjean to take him up on his challenge? “You’ll need to-“

“I’m aware,” Javert snapped, plucking at the knot of his cravat with one hand. It had been loose enough around his neck before the river that Valjean thought he could probably lift it over his head easier, but he had scarce opened his mouth to suggest it when Javert silenced him with a glare. Sliding a sturdy fingernail underneath the fabric, he managed to loosen the water-tightened knot enough disentangle it, and folded it almost neatly on the bed beside him.

“What caused it?” Valjean asked. If unbuttoning his shirt caused any strain on the injury, Javert made no sign of it on his face, though the man still was not making use of the arm on that side. Perhaps he had at least enough sense not to aggravate it further. “You weren’t wounded in the sewers.”

Javert looked him dead in the eye and spoke with gritted teeth. “Getting dragged out of a river.”

“...Right.” He waved the bandages in the vague direction of Javert’s exposed laceration, which is seeping blood slightly. “May I…”

“If you must,” Javert repeated. He didn’t turn to look as Valjean sat down, instead glaring at some invisible speck on the opposite wall. Silently, Valjean set about sponging off the dried blood surrounding the injury. Beneath the cool cloth, Javert’s skin was warm to the touch—worryingly so, enough that he could feel it through the fabric. Cleaned, though, the wound was not nearly as bad as he had feared, certainly not life-threatening on its own.

He said as much to Javert, who merely grunted.

“I suppose you’ll still insist on-“

Valjean nudged Javert’s arm out of the way to press a strip of iodine-soaked linen to the cut, and decided finding slight amusement in Javert’s startled hiss was probably uncharitable of him. Beyond that first shock, no sound or movement escaped him as Valjean secured the bandage around his lower torso; indeed, he hardly seemed to draw breath. Likely he could not stand even the light touch of one tainted by a past such as Valjean’s. With that in mind, he finished the wrapping quickly.

Javert’s cheeks were colored red when he looked up upon finishing—that, at least, was more likely due to the heat radiating off his skin than Valjean’s unwanted proximity.

“Here,” Valjean said, picking up the extra shirt and offering it to him.

“I have no need for your charity.” Javert made to retrieve his own shirt, wrinkling his nose slightly at the idea.

“That thing’s covered in blood and smells like river.”

“What does it matter?” What  did  it matter? Javert would surely come to his senses and arrest him soon enough, and there would be no need to concern himself with the shirt he was wearing. (Uneasily, Valjean thought of how warm the man’s skin was—if the fever got worse, neither would be walking free out of the Rue Plumet any time soon.)

“For God’s sake, at least let me wash it.” He expected protest— you’re only doing this to delay justice —or even an accusation of trying to steal it. None were forthcoming, and in a way, that was as disturbing as facing the man at the point of his pistol. Moreso, even.

As he’d predicted, his shirt was ill-fitting, falling loose over Javert’s narrower shoulders, though the longer shirtsleeves that were Valjean’s wont sufficed to reach his wrists and hide the martingale’s marks.

“Right—if you’re not going to arrest me at this moment-“ Javert merely raised an eyebrow at this, mouth turned down in what might have been irritation and what have been mere exhaustion- “I’ve got some smoked meat on hand, and I think most of the bread’s still good.” Again, this failed to withdraw a reply, and Valjean frowned. “Do you have a preference in the matter?”

“That would require appetite.”

“Bread, then.” He retreated to the kitchen and retrieved two loaves, exchanging the pail of water he had used to clean Javert’s injury for a fresh carafe. The cabinet wherein lay the instruments of his final penance laughed at him. Twice now, he had all but dangled the prospect of his arrest in front of the Inspector, and twice he had been all but ignored. If, as Valjean suspected, it had been allowing himself and Pontmercy to escape even temporarily that so caused distress, surely surrender would set the world to rights.

Wouldn’t it?

People break bread together, with varying degrees of willingness. Cosette makes an unfortunate discovery.

It's still Saturday somewhere?


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



Javert was slumped against the pillows when Valjean returned bearing bread, water, and a jar of strawberry preserves Cosette had left behind when they fled. That he had moved encouraged Valjean somewhat, though the shivering and dark flush of his cheeks that remained did not betoken a swift recovery.



“Drink, man. You’ll not die for want of water.” His word choice, he thought, could have been better. Even so, Javert accepted the offered glass without comment, staring at it. Eventually, he started to take miniscule sips with a frown; Valjean set to carving out slices of bread.



“Unfitting,” he said when Valjean made to give him a plated piece of white bread with (hopefully appealing) preserves on it. Valjean, halfway to raising his own piece to his mouth, tilted his head.



“You’ll need to elaborate.”



“This. You. The bread; that you should eat the bread of a pauper while giving me the more valuable of the two- ha! Were only we dining in accordance with our souls as God weighs them, I would hardly be fit to eat the most meager scraps of your feast.” He seemed somewhat delirious; Valjean surreptitiously reached towards the Inspector’s unused hand (and why leave it so awkwardly still, when the most injury seen on it earlier was a slight bruising?) and found it hot to the touch. Javert did not notice, continuing, “And yet you eat black bread.”



“It is my preference.” It was not as if Cosette were there to threaten to eat it herself, he thought with a pang. The taste of the bread was more bitter than he remembered—a reminder that he should not become so attached to any of his temporary luxuries. Though he had decided there in the kitchen to cease for the time being the reminders of his eventual sentence, he could not wantonly disregard the other limits he had imposed on himself. “Will you not eat?”



“Of this mockery? No.” The small plate lay untouched on the bed beside him, accusing, with the mostly full glass balanced atop it. “I am not hungry, nor would I prefer to eat better than my… host.”



“You must eat something. Have you had anything since your capture?” Valjean pressed.



“I have not found any appetite since then.” He rubbed at his wrist where it had been bound, his eyes tired. “You shouldn’t let that bread go to waste.” Reluctantly, Valjean took the plate back—Javert seemed content to nibble a few bites of black bread once he had done so, but he couldn’t shake the feeling that he had somehow lost this engagement.



Despite the food and water, Javert did not show any sign of recovery as the day wore on, becoming instead increasingly feverish. By midafternoon, Valjean was obliged to leave by way of the Rue Babylone entrance to retrieve water; upon his return he found that Javert was once again asleep, having pulled a blanket over himself despite the heat of the day. Even in sleep, he wore a grimace—no wonder, for his skin couldn’t have been warmer if he had been lying exposed to the sun all day. Despite his high temperature, his forehead was dry of sweat: a sign Valjean had learned to fear in Cosette’s occasional illnesses.



If this was the duty exacted from him by God, so be it. To save the one who had hunted him for so long, to deliver himself into his hands if so required–that act would not be a hardship any longer, ten years of comparative peace was enough to accept his fate–this would be his atonement for those last vestiges of hate he could still harbor (if his uncharitable thoughts of Pontmercy were any indication). Of any fate, it was merciful.


 


 - 


 


A moment must be spared now to Cosette, who had passed the last two days with little word of the events of the barricades and less of her father. Alone, this was not a concern–she was accustomed to Valjean’s odd comings and goings, even if she wished dearly to learn his reasons behind them. In times past, however, he had often given her warning for her peace of mind; he had not done so on this occasion.



The morning of June 7th, upon returning from a pleasant walk, a particularly strong summer breeze entered with Cosette through the door of 7 Rue de L’Homme Armé, casting to the floor the small accumulation of letters that had been placed upon a nearby table by Toussaint. The young woman knelt to pick them up, thumbing through the papers with practiced ease. The top five contained nothing unexpected—bills for her to attend to; a receipt for the last week’s expenses.



The handwriting on the sixth was wonderfully familiar.



Immediately setting aside the other documents, Cosette held Marius’s short letter before her, and a cold terror gripped her heart as she read the few lines.



“Toussaint?!” she called, not taking her eyes off of those dreadful words. “When was this letter delivered?”



“Which one, miss?” Cosette showed her. Wisely, the older woman remarked on neither the content nor the tears threatening to spill from Cosette’s eyes. “I’m afraid I don’t know—I found it on the floor outside Monsieur Fauchelevent’s room while cleaning this morning.”



“Did Papa read it? I suppose he must have,” Cosette said, not waiting for an answer. “But why has he gone? And where?” He had been National Guard for a time, she remembered with some unease, but cast the thought aside; surely her father would not go to strike down her beloved, and besides, they would have received word if he had died in service. “You did not see him leave?”



“I heard him, miss, late at night, but I had gone to bed.”



“That is alright. Perhaps the porter might have seen him; I shall ask.” Cosette smiled reassuringly at the woman, blinking hard to clear her eyes.



The porter verified that he had indeed witnessed her father’s late-night departure, but could shed little light on his destination. “He expected trouble the way he armed himself, that much was clear–not that anyone could blame him, going out at that hour what with those riots.” He shook his head, looking at the smashed lanterns along the street. “I heard the old carter up the street even got arrested. Revolutionary, but you wouldn’t have known it to look at him.”



“Thank you, monsieur. And- you haven’t seen him since?”



“Aye, not hide, nor hair, nor coat.” He blinked in surprise as she made to leave. “Going out already, mademoiselle?”



“I’m afraid I have rather pressing affairs to attend to,” said she. “Do tell Toussaint she needn’t hold a noonday meal?” He acquiesced, and she set off down the street, her stride long and determined. It wasn’t until she was several blocks away that the enormity of her task started to hit her, and she paused near a wrought-iron fence.



“What foolishness! When I know not even where to begin looking, and I will not be looked kindly upon for asking directions to a barricade,” she said. “And me all alone, too.” This did not deter her, it should be noted, for she soon began walking again. The thud of cannons the previous day, she recalled, had come from the east, and it was in the direction of those streets that she made her way. To her, it was only right that she at least find her beloved in death, for in all but law, she had the same rights to him as would a wife–at heart, she and Marius were married already, though their words and deeds had not gone farther than the chastest kiss.



“Spare a centine, mademoiselle?” a high voice asked. Distracted from her thoughts of Marius, Cosette looked down to see a young girl wrapped in what may have passed for the outline of a shawl and a too-short dress. Sitting huddled as she was, her ankles and calves were visible, though there was little in the way of healthy fat to be seen there. Something about her seemed familiar, though Cosette could not have said what.



She fumbled in the pocket of her dress for a coin, then paused. To be sure, her father had always been the one to give aid in the past, but as he was not here, she felt it her duty to make up for his absence. “Have you had any food today?” she asked, digging out a forty-sous piece and handing it to the girl, who shook her head. “Come with me.” There was a bakery not far away, and Cosette led the gamine there, buying her a handpie and getting a pastry for herself.



“Where’s one dressed so nicely heading alone in the streets?” the girl asked while licking the last flakes of the pie off her fingers. She still had not offered her name, and Cosette had not asked.



“The barricade,” Cosette said firmly. The girl’s head shot up; her eyes seemed aflame where before they had been dulled with hunger. “Do you know where it can be found?”



“Which one?”



“There’s more than one?”



“Over twenty of ‘em. ‘Course, most didn’t last the night, did they?” Cosette stared at her, barely noticing the girl’s face slip into a frown. Had her beloved bled out in the summer night with nothing to tell her of his passing? The image sprang to mind unbidden of Marius dead on the cobblestones, elegant green coat discolored by blood the same way a prick of her finger stained embroidery, and she shuddered. Surely she would have felt his passing through the bond of their love, been jolted awake- “I can take you to the ones what lasted to daylight, but I’ll need another coin.”



“Please,” Cosette all but begged, pressing the money into her hand immediately. Daylight- yes, her father had left late at night, surely he would not have vanished so long if the barricade had already fallen. (Her father’s body joined Marius in her mind’s eye, and she shoved the thought aside. She would find her beloved dead and her heart would be broken unto perishing herself, but Monsieur Fauchelevent was, to her, immortal.)



The girl led her to a neighborhood Cosette learned was called the Halles, with narrow streets and tall buildings. It wasn’t an area of the city she knew well, but what was? she reflected ruefully. She also learned, as she walked, about her guide. Apparently, the girl lived with her older sister and father, and had a younger brother that ran through the streets with the kingliness of the cleverest gamin. (“I haven’t seen ‘em for a little while,” she said of her siblings as they were crossing the Seine, “I shan’t be worried ‘til we hit a week, though, they know their way far better than me. ‘Specially Gavroche.”)



“I would have come here anyway,” she confessed to Cosette as they walked along the Rue de Billettes. There was an odd scent in the air that Cosette couldn’t place. “Papa wanted me to check, just in case, y’know?” Her wrinkled nose showed what she thought of that idea, or perhaps it was the smell—a bit like the rusty sections of fence at their old house after it rained, Cosette thought. “I 

hate

 checking stiffs, but I’ve been all over the city since that bell stopped ringing-” Before they could turn on to the Rue de la Chanvrerie, a young man dressed in a blue and red coat stepped in front of them. A National Guardsman, Cosette realized, recognizing the outfit as similar to her father’s.



“You there! Halt!” he declared, frowning at them. He was only a little taller than Cosette, and the wisps of brown hair escaping from his cap somewhat lessened the intimidating effect of the uniform.



“I beg your pardon, monsieur?”



“This street is no place for a young lady such as yourself, mademoiselle.” He didn’t acknowledge Cosette’s companion, which seemed unfair; gamine she may be, but she still deserved to be addressed.



“Why ever not?”



“We are still removing the remnants of the rebellion—the sight would greatly upset you, I fear.”



“We’ll be alright, monsieur.” She could bear it. For Marius’s sake, for her father’s sake, she would bear it. Cosette moved to walk past the guardsman, but he thrust out an arm in front of her with an apologetic look. The gamine did not move except to skulk towards the edge of the boulevard.



“I’m sorry, I truly may not permit you to pass. If you’re looking for someone, the names of all the assassinated National Guardsmen will be listed in the papers tomorrow,” he said. Cosette frowned. The man was sympathetic enough, but she could not outright say it was rebels she was in search of-



“Can you at least tell me something of the dead?” she asked.



“If I can. We have not yet discovered all of them yet, though.”



“Is there a young man there? He would be taller than yourself, with a solemn countenance, handsome cheekbones, and the most beautiful blue eyes-“ she elected not to give a name—if by some miracle her love was alive, she did not wish him arrested for it- “he has dark hair, and dresses all in black, with a green coat that greatly flatters his-“



“I’ve not seen any bodies matching that description,” the guard interrupted. Hope fluttered its wings tentatively before he continued, “but we haven’t cleared out many so far.” Something rattled from around the corner, and the guard winced. “You may wish to avert your eyes, mademoiselle-“



Cosette did not do so as a wagon was pushed out into the street, and saw for herself the shells of what had been revolutionaries piled haphazardly upon the cart. A flash of red fabric caught her eye towards the back of the vehicle—a coat torn half-free of a young man who fit closely the description Marius had once given of the golden-haired leader of his friends. What had been his name; had it started with an ‘E’? Whatever it was, it served to confirm to her that Marius had indeed fought here, though she did not see his body.



“What will happen to them?” she whispered as the loaded cart retreated to the north under the force of two rather pallid soldiers. It seemed wrong to speak any louder, having just seen the eyes of the dead. Staring and glassy, they reminded her of the convict-train she had once seen with her father; it was harder to believe that all these men deserved their fate.



“Them? I believe a pit has been dug. An unmarked grave, as… befits traitors,” the guard said, though he, too, seemed shaken by the sight. “I’m sorry, mademoiselle, I really must insist that you go. For your own sake.”



“Wait, monsieur- An older man, has he been sighted here? White locks, broad of frame…” For a beat, the guard said nothing, and Cosette’s heart sank at the increased furrow of his brow.



“An hour prior, I saw a corpse matching that description. Went past in the cart on the same load as a street gamin that wound up here somehow-“ (there was a choked whimper from the direction of Cosette’s guide, which went unnoticed) “-couldn’t see much but his head, which fits your description. I’m sorry,” he said, for Cosette had begun to cry, “if he was a relative of yours. He looked kind.” The pieces were quite clear, then. Her father had indeed come to the barricade upon intercepting the letter from her beloved, and fallen—perhaps in his defense. She staggered slightly as she turned to go, though where to she did not know; her father, indomitable, dead!



A flash of skirts around the corner alerted her to the disappearance of her guide—Cosette did not know this part of Paris, and to be abandoned in her grief-



“Wait!” she called. The word was broken by a sob, and she stumbled after the girl, trying to dash away tears. The sound of slowing footsteps drew her around another bend to the right—on to a lane that, if Cosette had a map at hand, she would have known to be marked as Mondétour.



The girl she followed had thrown herself, weeping, over the body of a young woman. Behind her, Cosette beheld the carnage left by the barricade, and fell to her knees.


I did not set out to have Azelma in this chapter, but here we are, and I cannot say I regret her presence. If there are any atrocious typos or punctuation errors, let me know; I wrote most of this unreasonably late at night.

The news of death begins to spread--some of it more believed than the rest. Cosette is not having a good day, but hope is a sturdy thing.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


To say that Cosette had never before seen death would not be entirely accurate. The Petit-Picpus convent, populated as it was by women whose ages skewed towards elderly, had seen the passing of at least half a dozen inhabitants during Cosette’s time there; it was unlikely that the funeral rites the young students were required to witness there much endeared them to the life of an abbess.

Then, too, there was the cholera that had stalked Paris in the past months—even the dreamlike bliss of new love could not wholly mask the carts that bore the unfortunate dead. To see one bearing the victims of the barricade had been startling, but not unfamiliar except in that one of them was recognizable in a distant sort of manner.

To so suddenly come upon this monument of bodies piled between unfeeling walls and a heartlessly blue sky—it was terrible in a way that Cosette had never known. She could not look up from the cobblestones; she could not raise her eyes again to that dreadful sight—through her tears, the street below her began to resolve itself, and bile rose in her throat as she realized the cracks between the stones she knelt on were the dark red-brown of dried blood.

She barely made it to the gutter before throwing up.

Nothing stirred in the alley; if anyone remained in the buildings that flanked it, the soldiers currently clearing the Corinthe kept them from investigating the sounds of distress on the other side of their walls. Even the rats did not yet dare to venture here.

Cosette’s retching subsided, and she closed her eyes, one hand braced against the side of a building in order to remain upright. She must find it in herself to look, she knew, for the sake of her love; he would not hesitate to do the same for her. A horrible envy arose within her for the girl still sobbing; she at least could witness the death of her loved ones without weakness. Shame stamped out the feeling as quickly as it arrived.

Cosette steeled herself, and looked. It was not a mountain, as she had first perceived; twenty-some men had been brought here in death, as well as the young woman. Their faces ranged from unlined and youthful to weatherworn; their clothing spanned the fashion of the gay students that could be seen on the streets to the rough laborer’s fabric her father sometimes wore. (Had worn, she tried not to think.)

She approached as if in a trance, searching each face for familiarity and finding none. Each step around the edge of the pile brought fresh dread; was it here that her Marius lay cold and still? Hot tears ran silently now down her cheeks, and she wiped at her eyes with her handkerchief when her vision became too blurred to see, forcing herself to see. Still, there was no sign of him among the dead, and a gentle hope swelled in her breast, tempered though it was by the thought of her father.

The conclusion of her search struck her with the sight of the gamine in her grief–the woman she wept over, though leaner in frame, bore strong similarities in appearance, and Cosette recalled that the girl had mentioned an older sister. She stepped towards the pair, though her stomach flipped treacherously at the sight of a ragged hole through the center of an outstretched hand.

The proximity allowed her to clearly see the face of the dead young woman and hear the muffled name spilling from the girl’s lips, and in a flash, she realized why her guide had seemed familiar. A memory stirred, faint but there, of two children and a doll-

Cosette hesitantly touched the girl’s shoulder, and she whipped around, dark hair flying. Her face was smeared with tears and snot from crying, but now that Cosette looked, truly  looked , she could see the traces of the Thénardier’s younger daughter. “‘Zelma?” she whispered. Azelma’s eyes widened, and Cosette stepped back involuntarily, though the expression was not one of recognition. The girl scrambled backwards on the stones, face warring between anger and terror. “Azelma, wait-”

Azelma staggered upright and fled, bare feet nimble on the rough street in a way Cosette could never be, and she could not find it in herself to give chase. Instead, she looked down at the body at her feet—Éponine, it had to be, though the years had been as cruel to her as they had been kind to Cosette.

There was no hate to be found in her heart as she looked. If resentment possibly lingered after those miserable childhood years (an unlikely state in her case), it had been washed away by the sight before her—nobody, she thought, deserved to be so cruelly shot down when they were as young as her. Or as old as her father!

She knelt once more, head bowed as two impulses struggled within.

A vast cavity had been torn in her soul upon hearing of her father’s passing, and she ached to mourn, to let herself be engulfed in grief as was appropriate. At the same time, her heart yearned to discover what had become of her love; if she could not save one, she could at least find the other.

It was not a decision so much as an instinct that she would mourn that night. God, she felt, was nearer in darkness than under a cruelly cheerful sun–and her father’s soul deserved her entire heart as she grieved; she could not be distracted by worries over Marius.

As if in a trance, Cosette left that woeful lane, feet placed numbly one in front of the other in the direction of the large Paris streets. If the guardsman from before called out to her, she did not notice, exhausted as she was in body and mind from the day’s trials. Still, there was one thing that remained to her–an address, seared into her memory as if a blade had carved it there and not a garden wall.

Minutes later, a fiacre bearing a lonely passenger was making its swift way towards Rue de la Verrerie.

 

-

 

Azelma ran without destination. Faces and buildings faded around her; carriages thundered past without a second’s notice. She kept to the narrowest streets by habit—it is likely that this is all that kept her from being crushed. Her world had shrunk to the stones beneath her and the throbbing in her head that placed a body and a pool of blood before her every time she blinked.

 Dead, they were both dead!  Éponine was fearless, a protective storm; how had she come to be abandoned in Rue Mondètour? And Gavroche- oh, God, Gavroche- to imagine him lying still and silent when even sleep could not hold him so-

She doubled over in an alleyway, gasping for breath. Closing her eyes only encouraged her imagination: the bloodied bodies of both her siblings laid out together on the cobblestones; Gavroche’s surprised face as a bullet caught him; watching helplessly as a figure that could have been guardsman or gendarme impassively murdered them both- Azelma’s back slid down the wall until she sat fully, hands pressed into her face to muffle her sobs.

And to be recognized on top of it all- to be driven from her sister’s side by a bourgeois girl that uttered her name as if it were a guillotine blade ready to strike away her freedom and family in one fell stroke- every nerve in her body screamed at her to keep running and put as much distance as possible between herself and the threat.

She stumbled blindly along the street with just presence of mind to glance back for pursuers—there were none, and this helped to gradually calm her, until she could once again orient herself within the city.

The day was drawing on—she set her shoulders and turned in the direction of the most recent den her father had found for them, her footsteps heavy with grief. They could mourn together, at least—with her mother still locked up, she and her father now had only each other for comfort.

“Finished at the barricades, I presume.” Azelma startled as a shade with a flower pinned neatly on its breast peeled away from a nearby alley. She did not answer, but turned her head away, watching the elongated shadows of Paris follow people over the stones. “Or perhaps you found something?” A considerate hum. “Y’know, I’ve not seen your sister much around recently.”

“Is there-“ the words came out too choked, and she tried again- “Is there something you want?” It was still some hours until sunset–if Montparnasse was out and about, he had a purpose.

“Myself? The riches of the world at my feet, but not from you, my dear. No. Your presence is requested.” His voice had a sneer in it, and she angled to look at him out of the corner of her eye. An irate Montparnasse was a dangerous one, though his face spoke more of amusement than anything—some recent good luck, perhaps, but what luck was there to be had in a world so recently darkened?

He slipped back into the shadows before she could ask, and she redoubled her pace, eager and dreading her return at once.

The corners of her father’s eyes crinkled in a smile when she entered the basement they’d hidden themselves in. Five or six other men sat on crates around the cellar with a relaxed air; bottles (likely filched from the distillery down the street) in varying states of emptiness sat with them.

“And now we are all together again. Clean yourself up and join us,” her father said, raising a bottle in her direction. Azelma stood stock-still, staring at him—was it possible they did not yet know, that they had not felt the hole torn in the world by her siblings’ deaths? Montparnasse moved in behind her and claimed a seat of his own, lounging on it in a way that made the wood almost look comfortable. “Christ, you look a mess. Is there something the matter?”

“They’re dead,” Azelma whispered.

Her father cupped a hand around his ear, gesturing for her to repeat herself. “Speak up, child!”

“They’re dead.” Her voice cracked on the second word, and she struggled to keep her composure; her father would not like it if she cried now and embarrassed him.

“Who is?”

“‘Ponine.” She could not cry, not now-

Her father frowned. “Oh.”

“And Gavroche.” Montparnasse twitched, a movement subtle enough that she may have imagined it. Her father’s frown deepened. For a moment, as tears welled in her eyes, she thought he would comfort her.

“Who?” She stayed silent, gaping at him, and he waved the idea away. “Never mind that. Where was she?”

“...Chanvrerie.”

One of the men snorted. “Leave it to that jade to pick boys set for execution.” Azelma glared at him with burning eyes.

“How  dare  you-” She didn’t realize she had charged at him until she crashed into her father’s outstretched arm, and there she flailed ineffectually, snarling. “Let me  go !”

“Calm down, would you?” her father hissed, holding her arm in a vice grip. “Did you get anything useful like you were supposed to?” Azelma reached hesitantly into her pocket. She had picked up a few rings and coins of low value off the other barricades, but it was the two larger coins that gave her pause. In her rage, she had nearly forgotten the danger she had brought upon herself, and she shuddered as she drew them out for her father to inspect.

“There’s something else. I… somebody knew me.” Her father’s eyes snapped to her from where he had been appreciating one of the rings.

“ Who. ” They were all looking at her now, and she tried to shrink back. The hand on her arm stopped her in her tracks.

“A bourgeois girl.”

“What’s a bourgeois doing at the barricades?” Montparnasse asked, leaning forward. His face was the only one without anger on it–if anything, he looked amused.

“She was- looking for someone, I think, she was dressed in mourning colors. A boy, and a man.” The grip on her arm tightened to become painful.

“Describe them . ” Azelma thought back to the words the girl had used–she had stopped paying attention when the soldier had described her brother, but-

“I don’t remember what she said about the boy–the man she described was strong, with white hair; I think it was her father, but that was odd, I thought, for how he sounded so much older-” Her father released her arm as if he had been stung, face contorting.

“ Gorbeau, ” he snarled, with accompanying sounds of anger from two of the other men. The word struck a chord, and Azelma’s eyes widened, remembering.

“Yes, that’s the girl! And that man–the one who was so gentle–he’s dead, then.”

“No,” her father said. His face split into a smile that showed all his teeth, and Azelma trembled. “He’s not.”

Thénardier saw an enemy jump into the Seine, why shouldn’t he celebrate? (Well...)

Valjean and Javert will be back in the next chapter, I promise. At the time that this one is taking place, they're too busy having their well-earned sleep; surely nothing bad for them is going on while that happens.

Javert’s condition worsens, and Valjean ponders the detriments of asking for aid.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Another night’s sleep did not seem to have aided Javert. Valjean had spent it in the chair again; there were worse places to sleep, and he wished to remain nearby in case Javert’s condition suddenly deteriorated. (Or suddenly improved—regardless of physical health, he doubted the man was in any state to walk out into the night.)

It did not, though Valjean had been jolted awake several times by the noise of a wracking cough, and slept poorly himself as a result. The first time had caused him to stumble half-asleep towards the bedside to ensure the man was not in his death throes; by the time morning dawned, the sound did not cause instant alarm, but it had become alarmingly common.

Should he find a doctor? Less than a day ago, Javert had been enraged at the idea—but the way he shuddered from fever even unconscious and that ever-increasing cough greatly worried Valjean.

“Javert,” he tried, pressing the man’s arm. His hand was gentle, but the man acted as if it were a brand, recoiling with a bitten-off snarl. He should have expected that; Javert had made his feelings about touch quite clear already. His eyes were open, but looked through Valjean as if he were not there—Valjean could not draw any spoken response from him, and he was loath to cause the man further grief with unwanted physical contact.

Valjean once again turned over the idea of getting a physician. He could pay, of course, money was not an issue the way Javert seemed to think. Rather what gave him pause was the risk of recognition. Javert could easily call him by name (or number, he thought with a scowl) and the Montreuil sur Mer scandal was not so far in the past as to be forgotten by the more scholarly citizen.

And what would happen if he were to be identified? His own fate, he had accepted, but to be caught in such a manner could prove nearly as destructive to his erstwhile pursuer. The police no doubt would question why and how their inspector had ended up in the care of an ex-convict—without arresting him immediately, no less—and the truth that he had little choice in the matter would mean nothing from Valjean’s lips.

If revealed by a physician or investigation, the full circumstances of Javert’s fall would ruin the man right along with Valjean; his credibility and livelihood would be destroyed. He had not followed him into the river just to see him so cast out, or God forbid, locked up himself. Yet neither could he let the man die of illness before his very eyes!

 

-

 


 The river roared in his ears, a thousand cruel currents crashing against his beaten body. He could not force himself to breathe in—one final weakness—but his unwanted flailings were nothing to the water that bore down on him. It drowned out his thoughts, and for that he was grateful, even as his rebellious limbs tried to force him to the surface of the maelstrom. 



 There were shapes in the water. Colors, where there should have been none, for no moonlight could reach these depths. A red so dark his eyes strained to pull it from the blackness around him twined through the water and around his wrists. 



 Blood, he realized dimly—his own? It slithered around his aching chest (he doesn’t have much longer; a relief as he’s dragged downwards by liquid hands) and laughed at him in a chorus of rushing foam. 


Betrayer,  it called him  . Coward.  He buried the words in his heart; they were just. For an infinity he fell with the voices, lungs folding on themselves as still his body refused to give him relief. 


 At once the river seized him more firmly in its turbulent grasp. 



 Who knew what horrors had entered the Seine that night? Something struck his side, and the blinding pain that lit up his arm caused him to gasp and choke as water flooded his lungs. 


 Iron and silt coated his tongue, he could not breathe-

“-vert?!” Javert!”


 He floated. Perhaps the current was gentler here—it almost seemed to cradle him—but that was not his due, and he longed to be dragged under once more that the water might finish its justice. 



 There was a face above him, when he cared to open his eyes, a face kinder than he deserved; he could not bear the sight. He could not shut his ears to the gentle voice that accompanied it, even if his words warped before he could grasp them. 



 Another presence loomed, and he looked again to see two men conversing at the river’s edge. The gentle voice was agitated, and Javert’s lips peeled back from his teeth at the sight of the stranger who looked upon him with a severe countenance—they could not have him! 



 Bitter water surged over his head once more, and his cry was lost to the darkness. 


 

-

 

“He’ll most likely live,” said the doctor, who had given his name as Moreau. Valjean exhaled with no little relief, his eyes never straying from Javert’s face. His fears had not come to pass—the man had been eerily silent throughout Dr. Moreau’s examination, bound by the fever that caused him to tremble before some unseen spectre. Even the setting of his arm, which the doctor performed with hands far steadier than Valjean had felt, could not cause him to cry out, though the bout of choking coughs that had seized him with his pained intake of breath may have forestalled that more than any unconscious stoicism.

(Valjean would be cursing himself for not noticing the injury earlier for quite some time, he knew. The man hadn’t even lied to him about it—Valjean had simply been too focused on the visible of his wounds, and too inattentive thereafter to recognize the way Javert avoided the use of that arm. To think, his blindness could have permanently injured him—or worse! He had been granted this brief reprieve; he could not allow himself to fail in such an unworthy manner again.)

“The laudanum will ease his breathing and allow him to heal—he’ll need a dose every six hours if he wishes to minimize the pain.” Moreau’s countenance was severe as he addressed Valjean. “He should not take it more often unless absolutely necessary, monsieur. Too much of it consumed can be fatal-“ Valjean’s stomach twisted at the thought “-and men have been driven to destruction by its abuse. Do you understand?”

“A dose every six hours. I will remember.” He pocketed the small bottle that the doctor passed to him.

“Good.” Moreau hesitated, glancing back and forth between Valjean and Javert. “Monsieur, I have not asked how this man sustained his injuries.” Valjean froze, but the doctor forestalled his speech with a raised hand. “I do not wish to know.

“It may be of interest to you that the police prefecture has made an order to hospitals that any man suspected of unlawful activity be reported if they enter seeking treatment. If, as I suspect, your friend was among those unhappy rebels at the barricades—no, do not tell me!—you did well to bring me here.”

Valjean almost laughed. He could not say which idea was more absurd—Javert, calling him a friend, or Javert, a revolutionary! Were the man conscious, he might arrest the doctor just for daring to voice such an impossibility.

He sobered, though, at the thought of the other he had delivered from the barricade. “Monsieur,” he said, trying to control the concern in his voice, “does the order extend also to calls such as this?” The door he had brought the boy to had positively reeked of wealth; there was little doubt in his mind that the mysterious grandfather could afford to procure the services of the best physicians in Paris. Moreau’s hesitation did not reassure him.

“You may rest assured that I will not do so—if I do not know who you are, how can I report anything?” The doctor smiled briefly. “We are all taught to help our patients; that can hardly be done by turning them in to the gendarmes.”  For Cosette’s sake, I hope you’re right.  Then again, that wealth would probably allow for bribery, if Moreau’s colleagues proved less honorable.

He escorted the doctor back to the gate, slipping an additional five-franc piece into his hand on top of the regular payment. Moreau had been invaluable, and as Valjean returned to the house through the garden path, he bore with him less of the urgency that had carried him in finding the good doctor.

Perhaps a particularly bright flower that Cosette had cultivated caught his eye. Perhaps, in contemplating the information given by Moreau, his head naturally angled downwards. Regardless, as he neared the door, Valjean found himself looking towards the ground, and gave a terrific start.

Scattered in the bare dirt around the edge of the house were several unfamiliar footprints.

The sources I found varied as to how high and often dosages for laudanum usually were—some said that forty drops was abnormally high for even an addict, others prescribed that same amount as regular treatment. One even provided several recipes, but I’ve not been able to do any firsthand research—some of the ingredients are rather hard to come by these days.

(I’m traveling with little time or access to data—if the next chapter is late, I am sorry.)

A continuation of the events of June 7th. Cosette finds a new thread to pull on.

I’m back


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Cosette entered Rue de la Verrerie as the shadows began to lengthen with the onset of evening. The sun wouldn’t be setting for some hours yet, she knew; secure in this knowledge, she paid and dismissed the driver of the fiacre.

Her feet would not move from the side of the street. To think—her Marius may be only a few doors away! Under any other circumstances, she would have found her own presence here daring in the extreme, yet it was desperation more than anything that drove her here now. Her father’s fate ( mourn later, oh God, let me have strength just a little longer-  ) she at least  knew , awful as it was. Marius had simply vanished. Hope, fed by faith in love and a just universe that could not destroy such love, kept her on her feet and whispered that he may yet be found.

She took a deep breath, and approached the building.

It only took one knock before an older woman–in her early forties, if Cosette had to guess–opened the door with a frown. “Who might you be?” she asked, squinting at Cosette.

“Cosette Fauchelevent, madame.” She gave a slight curtsy, unsure of the proper greeting. “Is Mar- does a M. Pontmercy live here?”

“Sure he does.” The portress didn’t seem particularly impressed, and Cosette became all too aware of the acrid taste in her mouth that likely was carrying on her breath. Perhaps she should have stopped at a public fountain to make herself more presentable, but she had been in such a rush to find Marius-

“Is he here right now?” she breathed, craning her neck to try and see into the hallway of the apartment. Nothing stirred, but then Marius’s apartment wouldn’t be on this floor, judging by the number.

“What’s it to you?” Cosette tilted her head, perplexed, before offering a five-franc coin. The portress pocketed it in one swift motion. “Haven’t seen hide or hair of him since Tuesday—my boarder he was rooming with, neither.”

“Could he have perhaps slipped by you?” Cosette asked, pleading silently for the possibility.

“If he did, he was awfully silent about it. You can go knock on the door and check yourself, I suppose.”

“Oh, thank you! I shall.” Cosette fancied she could feel the portress’s eyes following her up the rickety stairs. The wallpaper in the hall was peeling in places, but the building seemed well-kept overall, with a slight sense of wear that Cosette would have found charming if she were not so focused on the task at hand.

Soon enough she came to the door marked as  16,  and knocked.

Nobody answered. Floorboards creaked, but only the ones under her own feet as she shifted her weight in anticipation. A second knock produced the same lack of response, and she let her hand fall downward along the paneled wood until coming to rest on a bronze handle.

The door, when she tried it, was unlocked.

It swung inwards under the light pressure of her hand, revealing an apartment not dissimilar in shape to her own on Rue de L’Homme Armé. The difference lay in the decor. Where little time had thus far been spent making their new dwelling more welcoming (less than a week there, with Cosette melancholy and her father having given little priority to aesthetic items when hustling them from house to house, had left their apartment a somewhat dreary abode), No. 16 Rue de la Verrerie had a certain warmth to it that comes of having been called a home for an extended period.

That is to say, it was gently cluttered. Books lay on all surfaces visible from the door, and helped, along with a small box, to weigh down the large piece of paper on a desk overlooked by the room’s sole window, which faced the street. A double-mattressed bed stood tucked in a corner, the head of it obscured from Cosette’s view by the doorframe.

Cosette took all this in as she hovered at the threshold, eyes wide as she beheld Marius’s erstwhile home. Dare she step inside? It was clear enough that Marius was not here  now - but those last flickers of hope that resolutely refused to give up insisted that he could have left her some sign, some indication as to his current location. After all, he had found her the first time and given her this address so resourcefully.

The floorboards sighed as Cosette stepped off of them and into the apartment. Amazed at her own boldness, she approached the desk; it seemed the logical place to write a note from. On it, the large paper she had noticed from the door drew her gaze: a map of Paris, with several markings in multicolored ink that must have been added after its creation.

Was this a message? It seemed unlikely—her love was not inclined towards strange puzzles; furthermore, he would have no reason to send her to any of the National Guard posts she knew to be in a few of the marked locations.

Frowning, she looked at the other items on the desk—law books, mostly, and a German grammar guide with a coating of dust that far exceeded in thickness the light film on most of the apartment’s other surfaces. There was also an elegantly polished wooden box helping to flatten two smaller pages that blended in color with the pale paper of the map; the top was in Marius’s hand, and Cosette carefully removed it.

 Mademoiselle Gillenormand, 6 Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire, his address read, and her heart sank. There were only a few lines, and Cosette continued reading automatically.


 Mademoiselle, as before, I return this to you unopened, for I have neither need nor want of it. And as before, I ask that you c 


The ink made a stuttering line across the page at that point, as if the writer had dropped his pen mid-thought. Cosette replaced the page on the desk, and wondered at this ‘Mademoiselle Gillenormand’. Not an intimate relation, that much could be ascertained from the multiple uses of  vous , but who would then be writing to him repeatedly? She glanced at the map–Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire was a fair distance from her own apartment and Marius’s both; interestingly, fewer blue National Guard posts marked the neighbourhood.

(Unbeknownst to her, Courfeyrac had made quite the same observation while making the map a few days prior, and made a disgusted remark on the subject to an unhearing Marius.)

Almost against her will, for she had no wish to invade Marius’s privacy, Cosette’s hand reached for the second page. It was addressed to Marius, and dated for the first day of June.

 At your grandfather’s behest, your half-year’s allowance is contained within. For the sake of your family, put it to a   proper   usage. 

Family! In all those six weeks of bliss, he had not spoken of family–she had assumed that, like herself, he was alone in the world, or even more so, with not even a reclusive father for company.  (And now alone entirely; no more, please, no more-)  The  tu  address was rather at odds with the curtness of the letter, but Cosette had not the time to ponder it further, as behind her, the floorboards creaked.

“Thieving, are you?”

Cosette whirled around to see the portress standing in the doorway.

“The- the door was unlocked,” she said, casting about for an explanation. “I’ve not stolen anything, I would never!” Too late, she realized she still had Mademoiselle Gillenormand’s letter clutched in her hand, and felt herself flush. “I’m just looking for Marius, madame-”

“What would you want with him?” the woman interrupted, looking her up and down. “Or he with you?” It took a moment for the implication to strike, and Cosette’s flush deepened.

“We are in love, that is all,” she said firmly. “You see, I was to meet him two days ago, but could not- and since then he has vanished entirely. I fear he found himself in great peril.” Almost imperceptibly, the portress’s frown softened.

“Turn out your pockets,” she ordered, coming nearer. Cosette did so–she had only a few coins remaining of what she had begun her day with. The portress inspected these, then nodded towards the page in Cosette’s hand. “And that?”

“A letter. From his family–it was lying on his desk, I was merely seeing if he had left a message for me.” She held it out, and the portress glanced at it with a wince before setting it aside atop a small stack of books.

“Do you have a home, girl?”

Taken aback by this sudden line of inquiry, Cosette replied in the affirmative.

“Will you be welcomed back there?”

“Of course!”

“Then go home and forget about him, for your own sake. If you’re lucky, he’s dead and honorable–but more likely he just got summoned back to a nice marriage. That’s how these things go,” she said with an edge of wistfulness, folding Cosette’s hand back over the coins she still held and ushering her towards the door. Flabbergasted, Cosette allowed herself to be led back down the stairs and out on to the street without protest.

“Marius wouldn’t do that,” she finally said as the door clicked shut behind her. Her trust in her love was absolute, and there was the matter of the letter he had begun in response: the cold formality implied no inclinations to do as the portress had suggested.

She hailed a fiacre and directed the driver towards Rue de L’Homme Armé, trying to think against the sound of the vehicle rattling over cobblestones. Marius would not abandon her, but his family might feel a possession of him in the same way she did–who wouldn’t want to have him in their life? Clearly they still had enough affection to address him in an informal, familial manner–might they then feel entitled to him? (Wrongly, of course; Cosette had a far better claim.)

She would find them, and see if they had indeed taken Marius from her. Tomorrow. For evening was drawing on, and Cosette could at last allow herself to mourn the father she had lost.

 

-

 

As the sun dipped below the horizon that night, casting the streets of Paris into blue shadow, three men could be seen skulking towards a certain house on Rue Plumet. Their manner was defined by a certain furtive boldness–they strolled along the boulevard with the same leisure as one out for a refreshing walk, all the while making certain to avoid the brighter pools of light cast by the gas lamps that lined the street.

This peculiar habit aside, one could, at first sight, mistake these men as honest. The youngest of the three was dressed befitting one with fine taste in clothing, though when passing near a lamp, the worn quality of the fabric was revealed; he would have been refused entry to most high-society circles for it. The other two dressed in sturdy, though old, worker’s clothes, and put together with the dandy made an odd-looking company.

All three came to a halt outside the fence of number 55, and glanced around for passerby—there were none. The taller of the two older men reached for the ornate bars to test them at the urging of the shorter. (“After all,” the latter could be heard saying with some satisfaction, “there is no dog to stop us this time.”)

The third, who had progressed a few steps farther to examine the gate, uttered a surprised exclamation under his breath. “Fools—it’s unlocked,” he told the other two, who stared at the gate in amazement. Indeed, it was several inches ajar, with no chain or other blockade to be seen.

A hushed argument occurred as to whether the three should take advantage of the suspiciously open passage and the stone path beyond, which could leave them exposed to any watchers from the house, or continue searching for a way over or through the fence, which though more time-consuming would afford them shelter from wary eyes. They compromised; the dandy (presumably the least recognizable to the house’s occupant, and who had little desire to tear his hard-won garb on the sharp whorls of iron between the street and the garden) would enter through the gate and scout out the mark.

Two short, low whistles soon indicated that the coast was clear, and the two older men warily stepped through the gate.

“Are you certain?” the shorter asked as he drew abreast of the dandy, eyeing the darkened house. 

“There’s been no movement, no light whatsoever; of course I’m certain. Who’s to say they’re even here?” He stepped back with a mocking flourish, allowing the shorter man to approach along the path as the other two fanned out through the edge of the garden towards the sides of the house.

The door, when he tried it, was locked.

“Montparnasse, come here,” he hissed, beckoning him over from where he had been examining a closed window.

“Something you want, old man?” He ambled over, frowning at the bits of mud that clung to his shoes. “I’ll have you know-“

A loud yelp came from around the side of the house, splintering the stillness of the night. The two men whirled in unison, a wickedly sharp blade appearing in Montparnasse’s hand as the other glared in the general direction of the sound. Both strained to hear if any alarm was raised behind the walls of the house.

No further noise was forthcoming, and they relaxed slightly, though the dagger stayed out. The older man was the first to move. He stepped off of the doorstep, cursing his compatriot as he picked his way through the soft earth. Montparnasse prowled behind, casting glances every so often towards the building.

They rounded the corner to encounter their taller compatriot, who stood stock-still in front of a window. He didn’t react to their appearance, but continued to stare wide-eyed at the glass pane.

“Idiot! Don’t just stand there!” the shorter man said, shoving him away from the window. “What the devil’s got you so spooked, Babet?” He received no response, and continued, “You’ll bring the coppers down on us all with your theatrics!” 

Montparnasse, meanwhile, attempted to peer inside, but found himself stymied by the curtains, which covered nearly the entire window but for a slim crack in the middle where they didn’t quite overlap fully. The flickerings of some out-of-sight fireplace illuminated the back of a chair a few feet in front of the window, at the corner of which a white crown of hair was visible. Its occupant might have been slumped against one side, though nothing else could be told from this angle. If there was anyone else in the room, the high back of the chair blocked them from Montparnasse’s sight line.

“Come, what’s in there?” he asked, turning to Babet, who had calmed somewhat. His question was ignored.

“I’m not risking myself against a haunt, Jondrette,” he said, glowering at the shorter man, who shrugged.

“You’ll get none of the reward. Nor revenge.”

Babet spat. “Not worth it.  Bonne chance. ” He stalked off, leaving Montparnasse and Jondrette to stare after him.

“Did you see anything in there?”

“He didn’t say anything?”

“Nothing sane.” Jondrette scowled. “Give me a lift.”

Montparnasse looked between the man’s shoes, filthy with mud and probably worse substances, and his own impeccably neat trousers. “Not a chance.” The knife was still in his hand, and Jondrette seemed to think better of pushing the issue.

“Fine. What did you see?”

“Not much—the chair and curtains block ‘most everything. Fabric pattern’s a few years out of date.” Jondrette moved to look in, face almost touching the glass. “You think there’s a good pay-out to be had from  this  fellow?”

“Eventually. Soon, even.” Jondrette didn’t move, a slow smile spreading on his face. Great plans were unfolding in his mind’s eye; to the observer, he became dull to watch within moments.

“Shall I find an entry? There are better things to do at night than watch you scheme, old man,” Montparnasse asked after a few minutes of this, wandering towards a rose bush to examine it in the moonlight. Jondrette stepped back, a smile still playing at the edge of his mouth.

“We’re leaving.”

“What?”

“This isn’t to be rushed, and you’ve better things to do.”

Montparnasse rolled his eyes. To think, the man had called  Babet  theatrical.

“Don’t concern yourself too much.” Jondrette’s smirk, if possible, got wider. “I have what we need.”

Babet upon seeing Javert “very sight strikes terror into criminals” Right There: You said this guy was dead!!!

Thénardier: ???

it’s missing courfeyrac hours 😔

As Hugo’s misérables are wont to do, Javert rambles; Valjean is inept at estimating other peoples’ states of mind.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Valjean found himself ill at ease upon reentering the house. The last rain had been the night of the barricade: a weather that could not seem to make up its mind between a miserable cold mist and brief deluges; both had proven unfortunate for the state of the rebels’ munitions. Whoever had left their footprints outside had done so recently.



(How many days had it been since the barricade, since that death-march through the sewers? He suspected the loss of at least one in his count, given the dry state of the ground today, but had no newspaper on hand to reference, and regretted not asking the doctor.)



The curtains of the guestroom had been closed while they slept, that much was certain–he remembered opening them to check Javert’s injuries the day prior, and again earlier that morning. He closed them again now, casting the room into shadow. A slim crack in the middle of the window where the fabric didn’t quite meet allowed some sunlight still to enter, painting a golden line up the back of his chair and across the bed.



Someone standing outside the window could certainly have peered through, and he shuddered at the thought of some unknown malefactor’s eyes upon him as he slept. At least if it had been the police, they would not have left him with any doubt in the matter.



A sound behind made him turn to see Javert’s gaze fixed unerringly upon him, his good arm trembling where it supported his weight against the bed. Not him, Valjean realized. The window. The rasp of his breathing was just barely audible, sleep-light, as it had been since the doctor’s laudanum had calmed that horrible fit of coughing he had gone into earlier. Even now with the drug doing its work, his face had not wholly lost that terrified anger it had held during the ordeal.



Valjean had to strain his ears to make out Javert’s muttering. “-watching.”



“They- who?” He opened the curtains again, but saw nothing out of the ordinary beyond the footprints below. Javert was still staring out at the sky when he turned around.


“It will not be suffered, of course.” His voice was more audible (if a bit slurred) now, perhaps in response to Valjean’s questioning, but that response itself was nonsensical. “Justice must be done-”



“For what?” This seemed to register, and Javert made eye contact with him for the briefest instant before dropping his gaze to the floor.



“I have wronged you, in thought and deed, monsieur.” 

Ah.

 Whether by fever or the laudanum’s effects, it seemed the man’s mind was no longer in this year, nor this city. “The mistake has been proven; you are a paragon and I a wretch to have been so willfully blind to it, a good man among us all-“



“Javert, I am not...“ Valjean wished he would cease his rambling; he would undoubtedly recant as soon as he was in his right mind.



“-and I must face the consequences, monsieur, even the very stars demand it-“ Valjean placed a hand on his shoulder, and Javert fell silent, trembling violently as he stared at him with fever-bright eyes. The arm which supported him seemed moments away from giving out; Valjean half expected him to collapse from just the weight of his hand.



“Please, inspector, rest,” he said, carefully pressuring him to lie back against the pillows. Javert bared his teeth at the suggestion, and Valjean drew back, intending to give him his space.



Javert’s hand suddenly caught his wrist; though his grasp had no strength to it through Valjean’s shirtsleeves, he flinched despite himself. The hand slid immediately to grip his own, likely, Valjean thought, more due to Javert’s weakness than any consideration for his comfort. He turned to face him once more.



“You do not allow me my resignation. Why?” His eyes were nearly closed and his words blurred together, the laudanum pulling him under once more. Even so, he refused to let go of Valjean—not atypical, Valjean thought.



“Rest,” he said in lieu of response, gently extricating himself. Javert made no move of protest; his hand dropped limply to the sheets. Valjean sighed and returned once more to the window. Nothing stirred outside–there was no wind to rustle the leaves of Cosette’s erstwhile wilds–yet his mind cast moving shadows beneath the trees that he could give neither name nor face to. He shuddered and drew back, retreating from the room. A book, perhaps, would calm his nerves.



There were not many reading options left in the house; he had not collected literature for himself since Montreuil, and Cosette had taken most of her own materials away with her. Some of the philosophical texts he had obtained for her continued education after the convent remained, however—clearly, they had not warranted a place in a hastily-packed trunk. They would suffice for a distraction from Valjean’s current mess of circumstances.



He returned to what was quickly becoming his preferred armchair and opened a book, but soon found his thoughts turning instead towards Cosette. She would have come to terms with his leavetaking by now; Pontmercy, in his tragic state, could not help but occupy her mind and time. This task of Valjean’s was but a temporary delay in being rendered unable to trouble her any further.



Still, it would have been a comfort to have something to remember her by. Valjean thought with a pang of the little valise which contained those first mourning clothes he had given her–a sad history likely remembered only by himself, now destined to fade forgotten once she got around to clearing what remnants he had left behind in their- no, her apartment.



Perhaps on occasion, ignorant of his sins, she might remember fondly the man who had done his duty by her before passing out of her life; it was the best he could hope for.



The dull 

thud

 of the book sliding off of Valjean’s lap scarcely registered as he buried his face in his hands and wept.


Somewhat shorter of a chapter, but life has been... busy.