Title: Punish the Sinner
Work ID: 44290378
Author: Valvertoulon
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean/Original Male Character(s)
Additional Tags: Toulon Era, Hand Jobs, Prison Sex, Anal Sex, Corporal Punishment, Cock & Ball Torture, Humiliation, Javert's Confused Boner, Prison, Punishment, Blood, Period-Typical Homophobia
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Valjean had sex with his fellow convict. Eventually Javert found out and punished him severely.

Work text:

It was a cold night of February. Snow was blowing into the prison hulk through the iron-barred window. The luxury of fire was gone as the coldest month passed by. Valjean rolled in his worn blanket, feeling the cold shackle on his ankle. Chill came through the plank he was sleeping on. He shuddered and tugged the blanket closer to himself.

Then he felt something on his back.
“Jean,” it was the hand of Brunot who was sleeping beside him. “Can’t sleep?”
“Aha,” Valjean replied. “It’s cold tonight.”
“Then why don’t we warm up each other?” Brunot whispered, putting his other hand on Valjean’s back covered with the rag.
Valjean rolled over to Brunot, still tightly clenching his blanket.
“Come here,” Brunot said, raising his blanket to Valjean.
He slid into Brunot’s blanket. It was slightly warmer than in his own blanket, although it was the same rag as Valjean’s. He relaxed his fist clenching over the blanket a little.
As Brunot’s hands slid into his trousers, Valjean did nothing. Brunot’s rough hands traced his buttocks to his thighs. When Brunot finally reached his soft cock, he shuddered silently.
“There.” Valjean felt Brunot’s breath on his nape. It was unusually hot in this freezing prison hulk. Valjean shut his eyes and gave himself to the primitive pleasure. He felt his cock hot and hard as Brunot stroke his cock mechanically. He felt Brunot hard behind his buttocks.
“Spread your cheeks.” Brunot whispered while panting heavily. Valjean moved his hands to hold his cheeks. He heard Brunot spit. He flexed when he felt something wet around his hole. Suddenly, something hot and massive intruded Valjean’s hole.
“Ah,” he gasped.
“Shhh quiet!” Brunot whispered and blocked Valjean’s mouth with his wet hand. It smelled sour. Valjean reached to his own cock which had softened a bit and started stroking it roughly.
In this way, he could forget everything: hard labor, blows of cudgels, chains bound to his ankle, even the chill of the freezing prison hulk. He concentrated his nerves on his throbbing cock and his clenching hole which was resisting the intrusion against his will.
“Relax, boy.” Brunot patted Valjean’s roughly shaved head. The moment he gasped again, Brunot’s whole cock slid into his hole. He saw something white flush in front of him. He couldn’t feel anything other than Brunot’s big cock sliding in and out of his hole.

Suddenly Valjean felt empty inside himself. He was still dizzy, but he felt chill creeping to his body.
“Robert?” He looked back slowly, still feeling like in a dream. He saw Brunot rolled up in his blanket. Then he found himself exposed. He couldn’t cover himself up for the next moment he felt familiar pain on his back.
He groaned and slowly looked up. He found the tall figure with a cudgel in his hand.
“What are you doing, 24601?”
Valjean froze. It was Javert. The young guard who was famous for being fair yet strict. He couldn’t utter a word, only staring Javert with his eyes wide open.
“I’m asking you, convict,” Javert prodded Valjean’s shoulder almost casually, but Valjean flinched to expect another blow.
“If you don’t answer, I must interrogate you.” Javert said, and Valjean realized he must say something. But what could he say?
“I’m sorry, monsieur.” He managed in a small voice, pulling his trouser up to his waist, feeling his hole still slick with Brunot’s cum.
“You haven’t answered the question.” Javert snapped. “It seems I have to punish you for disobedience.”
Javert took off Valjean’s chains from the iron bar on the edge of the plank he was sleeping on.
“Hands,” Javert ordered. Valjean held out his hands obediently. Heavy and cold shackles clicked on his wrists. Cold sweat ran down his back.

Javert led Valjean by the chain connected to the shackles to the guards’ room. The room was not big. It was furnished with a table and a chair. A rifle was put against the wall in the corner. Javert fixed the chain on the ring in the middle of the wall. He kicked inside of Valjean’s ankles to spread his legs open wide. Then he proceeded to unbutton Valjean’s trousers and pulled them down to his knees.
“I must check the evidence before it’s destructed.” Javert mumbled. “Now stick out your buttocks for me.”
Valjean blushed but complied. He knew he had no choice. He knew what was to come when he didn’t obey the guards’ order. He knew his fellow convicts thrashed to bones. He knew them crying like babies when they got out of a month of dungeons.
Valjean felt Javert spreading his cheeks.
“What is this?” It was not a question. A heartbeat later, he felt something cold and hard against his hole. As he stumbled, he felt extreme pain between his legs. It was Javert’s hand that grabbed his balls and pulled them behind roughly.
“Keep still or you’ll regret it.” Valjean froze, and it made it more agonizing to receive Javert’s cudgel in his hole. The cudgel was twice the size of Brunot’s cock. It had heavy metal on the tip of it and intruded Valjean’s soft hole forcibly.
“Mercy!” Valjean gasped helplessly.
“Mercy?” Javert sneered. “Mercy is for man who can understand the meaning of the law by words, not for a beast like you.” He pushed his cudgel further into Valjean’s hole. “A beast like you can only learn from pain. I will make sure to beat good behavior into you, 24601."
By then Valjean’s hole swallowed nearly thirty centimeters of the cudgel. Blood spilled from the edge of the hole. Valjean hanged his head down and sobbed silently.
Finally, Javert released Valjean’s balls and pulled off his cudgel out of Valjean’s hole. Javert wiped his cudgel with Valjean’s yellow trousers. This left shameful stains on the back of his trousers, just under the crease of his buttocks.
“You will keep this position until the morning comes. Do you understand?”
“Yes, monsieur,” answered Valjean.
“If you dare to move, you know what is to come.” Javert prodded Valjean’s balls casually, just like he did to Valjean’s shoulder a while ago.
“Yes monsieur,” Valjean swallowed and answered in hast.

Javert returned to the desk and sat on the chair without taking his eyes off Valjean. He started his paperwork, only to look at Valjean every one minute. Valjean stayed still, showing his sinful hole in the dim light of the guards’ room. The blood dripped from his hole to his firm thighs, making another stain on the yellow trousers. Between the massive thighs, his soft cock was hanging down obediently. Yes, I will cure of this beast’s behavior, Javert thought. It was his duty to punish the degenerate. He was certain of that. Still, Javert couldn’t understand why he felt something hot between his legs.