Title: Javert has many years of fantasies to work through
Work ID: 44400298
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert Comes In His Trousers, javert loves sucking dick, he's just a little subby sub, Dom Valjean, Sexual Roleplay, Established Relationship, it's just PwP
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 2/2

Summary:
Javert loves sucking dick. We all know it.*Apparently I'm adding more chapters of them just banging

Work text:


He enters the Mayor's office, boot heels clicking dangerously on the wooden floor. The Mayor is seated, once Javert would have thought it a meek hunch of the shoulders now, in full knowledge, he knows it is the hunch of a lion before it pounces. He does not wait to be acknowledged, he reaches into his pocket and removes the letter with the crackle of folded paper. The Mayor pauses writing and looks up, calm and languorous. Javert represses a smirk as he unfolds the letter, one hand wrapped around the heavy leaden head of his cane. 



"This letter here, Monsieur le Mayor, is a warrant for your arrest."



There is a tension in the Mayor's shoulders as he leans back, eyeing Javert with a guarded caution,



"On what charges?"



"On the charge of being the escaped convict Jean Valjean."



"I see."



The Mayor rises and there it is- the flash of fear and twitch of excitement that shudders through Javert's body at the thought of being enclosed in this small room with such a dangerous creature.



The Mayor circles round his desk, fingers trailing over the wood with the gentle touch of a lover. His eyes rest on the floor,



"And your evidence is infallible?"



"Yes."



"And the support unwavering?"



"Yes."



"Then I suppose I am had. You will not hear out my justifications?"



Javert laughs at that, a low rolling chuckle accompanied by a flash of odd white teeth and pink gums,



"You know my answer."



Valjean hums. One thick fingered hand comes up to rub thoughtfully over his moustache. Then he turns his back. By god he turns his back and stands with his hands linked loosely, comfortable at his lower back, resting just above the swell of his ass. Javert colours with anger,



"It is time for you to go!" He says, "Come with me."



"Your mind cannot be changed," Valjean says, "your honour untouchable."



"Enough of this!"



"I can offer you nothing to tempt you?"



"A bribe? A deal? Path! Pathetic, but not a surprise. You thieves are all the same: arrogant. You know me better than that."



Valjean hums again and his hands unclasp and move to his front out of sight,



"And this?" He says turning to reveal … to reveal… Javert's mouth goes dry, his eyelids flutter, his Adam's apple bobs as he tries to swallow down a mouthful of spit at the sight of it, thick and dark and standing proud through the hole in Valjean's trousers.



"What are you-"  his voice catches in his throat as one coarse, hairy hand grasps at the base and strokes up, sliding the skin over the dark soft head before pulling it back. Javert feels himself tremble, feels the answering hardness between his own legs.



"I have seen you," Valjean says, voice a low smooth rumble, "you have sought it out with your eyes. Traced the shape of it through my trousers."



"N-no…" his voice sounds weak even to his own ears.



"If you let me go, not forever, only a head start, I am willing to let you have it," he says, bringing that hand slowly up again to tantalisingly conceal the head before revealing it again slick with glossy precome. Javert whimpers.



"I am willing," Valjean says, and his look is so heavy and dark it almost drops Javert to his knees, "to let you have it in your mouth."



Javert does drop at that in a terrible clattering of his cane against the ground and the painful thump of his knees and then he is crawling across the room to the sound of Valjean's low, smug chuckle. It blends into a breathy noise of satisfaction as Javert closes his lips eagerly around his head, hollowing his cheeks and letting his eyes flutter closed, enraptured.



It's thick and hot on his tongue and fills his mouth as he flares his nostrils and slides his lips down towards the base. God, his own cock is fighting the confines of his trousers, throbbing agonisingly. He can feel the pulse of blood on his tongue and he moans as Valjean's hand comes to rest on the back of his head briefly before it moves up to begin slowly unbuttoning his shirt to peel it off revealing the bulging fat pectorals, thick with hair, underneath. Javert keens, even the hot cock in his mouth does nothing to muffle the sound and Valjean chuckles again returning his hand to rest on Javert's head, his other hand beginning to fondle his own chest. Javert can do nothing but stare, pupils blown wide, body and mind absorbed in the smell, sound, sight, taste of him. His tongue works hungrily over the silky length in his mouth and he pulls off of it wetly only so he can take it by the base in his hand and curl his tongue around the head, flicking the precome from the slit and delighting in its taste. Valjean's fingers massage his scalp as he moves down to nuzzle the heavy hairy balls, letting them rest on his tongue (a satisfying weight) before he begins to lap at them in earnest. Above him Valjean moans his approval, breathes coming short and harsh as he teases his own pink hard nipple,



"Good," he says, "I knew you'd been wanting this."



Javert can't answer him, he has forgotten he had ever known how to speak. His pulse throbs in his ears, his cock throbs in his trousers. He slides his lips back down the length of Valjean's cock and begins sucking him in earnest, hard and wet and ravenously hungry for it. Valjean's grip tightens in his hair and the firm hand sets his pace and Javert is so so grateful for it and grateful for every agonising cry of his own untouched cock. Valjean's words dissolve into loud heaving pants. Javert moans around him, equally breathless, swallowed by Valjean's pleasure, heady and mad on the taste of his precome. He wants nothing more than to feel Valjean come in his mouth and gently Valjean's fingers loosen in his hair and move round to cup his cheek as he groans,



"You have earned this." 



And there it is, the blinding overwhelming pleasure of that thick heavy cock twitching on his tongue, spilling hot salty liquid down his throat and in his mouth. He keens helplessly and finally grabs at his own cock through his trousers palming it and gagging a wail on the cock in his mouth as he comes. 



He keeps sucking and licking until Valjean's gentle hand guides him away and then he slumps back on his heels, loose and boneless and barely able to form a thought. Valjean's fingers gently wipe a smear of cum from his lip and Javert looks up at him bleary-eyed and stunned by his beauty.



"Did you enjoy it?"



Javert's voice is coarse when he answers,



"Oh yes."



"It was as good as you imagined?"



"Better."



Valjean chuckles,



"Only I fear there is not much of the Madeleine left in me-"



"Enough of that," Javert grouses, struggling to his feet (he's getting old) "how hard do I have to cum before you stop doubting how utterly irresistible I find you?"



Valjean chuckles and pulls him into a kiss, hands forming a gentle warm cradle around Javert's face. Their noses smush together and their breaths ghost warmly over each other's faces and it is just as wonderful as the first time they kissed, and the last, and the last before that, and- well, and so on. 



"I just want you to have everything you deserve."



"And I you," Javert says, "and it's certainly no hardship."


 


It's too easy, that's the problem with it. If it weren't so easy maybe he wouldn't be so swayed by it. Maybe he wouldn't be spread out of Valjean's bed, muscles being stretched out, teeth clenched on Valjean's nice pillow, breaths puffing from his nose. Maybe if he had to work harder for it? No, that had only ever made it a sweeter reward. 


 


He lets himself release a particularly loud groan as Valjean does something delicious with those thick, coarse fingers. God. All he has to do to please Valjean is lie still and let himself be worked. Let the man stroke every muscle into a state of bliss. This particular muscle is well stretched and plenty blissful but both Javert's curling toes and the heavy sweat on his forehead know there's plenty to go yet. Valjean is a wicked man, his mercy only another form of cruelty; he'll have Javert wriggling yet, begging for more, but not quite now. No, for now he's remaining strong, unbroken. He's resisting every stroke of those fingers against his prostate. 


 


Valjean's hand comes to rest on his hair and gently, soothingly stroke him. This is the next phase of the torture: the psychological aspect. The heat and weight of Valjean's body comes to rest hovering over him and Javert finds himself gasping and canting his hips as those fingers tug inside of him, then he bites down harder growling his resistance,



"Hush," Valjean rumbles, voice soft and bass, "You're doing so well."



Javert snarls at him for his trouble,



"You're so beautiful," Valjean continues, caressing him like he is soothing some wild beast, "You will be so nice and ready for me. Good boy."



And oh how ready Javert is. He's been ready all evening.


 


The soft light touch of Valjean's lips ghost over his skin, down the dip of his spin, licking the sweat that has gathered there until tongue meets fingers as they slip free and Javert is finally bucking up under him panting and pressing his face into the mattress and lifting his hips to insist. He's weak. He's a failure. He'd truly believed he could hold out for longer, but Valjean's thumbs are spreading him and the slick head of Valjean's cock is pressing into him and he's clawing at the bed and thrusting back onto it because god help him he has waited all night and dreamed all day-



It's with a long groan that Valjean buries himself deep inside, and then he is laying himself out over Javert's back, kissing between his shoulder blades, and they are moving together; the slow rhythmic dance they know so well. It is ecstasy, it is an act of devotion. They tangle their fingers together and Javert twists himself to sloppily kiss his master, to feel the press of the hot wet muscle of his tongue into his mouth as that hot thick cock presses inside of him, claiming him at both ends. Taming him with the gentle insistence of Valjean's generosity. He is like a wild dog gently petted and fed until it is willing, finally, to curl up by its master's feet at the fire. He is happy to be so. Beneath his basalt shell he has wanted this his whole life. He thanks Valjean with this tongue and the rolling of his hips. He makes a vessel of his body and receives Valjean's alms with rapture…and the man of mercy comes again.


 


They slump together on the bed, Valjean still resting inside of him, fingers still curled, legs confused, bodies almost melting into one. 



"Thank you," Valjean murmurs, pressing a kiss over his spine.



Javert doesn't have to say 'you don't have to thank me' he's said it a thousand times before. Instead he says,



"It's yours," and Valjean hums against his back and presses a gentle, smiling kiss,



"And I'm yours."
