Title: Stars, Hide Your Fires
Work ID: 44466886
Author: Lady_of_the_Refrigerator
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Montreuil-sur-Mer, Mild Hurt/Comfort, Alternate Universe - Soulmates, Soulmate-Identifying Marks, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables), Top Valjean, Autistic Javert (Les Misérables), Light Dom/sub, Enemies to Lovers, Timeline What Timeline, implied suicidal thoughts, Demisexual Characters, Eventual Smut, Javert (Quast) - Freeform, Valjean (Wilkinson), Found Family, Fix-It of Sorts
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 18/?

Summary:
Weeks upon weeks passed in a blur before Valjean even had a spare moment to notice the newest mark upon his back, the flesh thick and scarred like a brand in the shape of a well-formed handprint, layered over top the latticework of lashes he had earned in Toulon.
Valjean’s stomach turned as he tried to catch a proper glimpse, twisting to see his reflection in a smudged bit of windowpane by the meager light of a flickering candle.
It had happened, then, at last. After many dark and grueling years on his own, he had finally encountered his soulmate…

Work text:

The last thing Jean Valjean felt as he crossed the boundaries of Toulon—tossed out into the harsh realities of the outside world for the first time in nineteen years with little more than the clothes on his back—was a firm shove between the shoulder blades. 

It was not a kind touch to receive. It burned like something caustic, like judgement.

Valjean would not give the guard who had bestowed it upon him the satisfaction of looking back at him as he left. Instead, he kept his head high, his back straight, and his gaze securely fixed in front of him, in the direction opposite Toulon. 

Valjean knew the guard well enough. He would often find him watching him with keen eyes, his attention heavy, like the weight of his parting shove. He had been very young when their paths first crossed, young enough to still have spots, for his long limbs to still appear gangling, and his sideburns to still have scraggly bare patches. 

The guard had hardly been a man at all yet—young and idealistic and full of a righteous fire. He was so sure of himself and his own virtue that he didn’t fall victim to the baser follies Valjean had come to expect from his jailers even as the years passed, which made him singular among his fellow guards. 

Little did he know how fine a line there was between himself and Valjean, how small a misstep it would take to topple him from his lofty pedestal. Perhaps, in time, he would learn as much. God willing, Valjean would not be around to witness his fall from grace if and when it came.

Any lingering thoughts of the young guard were soon enough overshadowed by Valjean’s struggle to maintain his own footing on a path too treacherous to navigate with only his yellow papers as his guide map. 

Weeks upon weeks passed in a blur before he even had a spare moment to notice the newest mark upon his back, the flesh thick and scarred like a brand in the shape of a well-formed handprint, layered over top the latticework of lashes he had earned in Toulon. 

Valjean’s stomach turned as he tried to catch a proper glimpse, twisting to see his reflection in a smudged bit of windowpane by the meager light of a flickering candle. 

It had happened, then, at last. After many dark and grueling years on his own, he had finally encountered his soulmate… and had already lost them, too, all without ever recognizing it had happened. 

Valjean began to pace the length of the small, shabby room, thoughts racing.

How many people had he met since his release as he moved from place to place in search of honest work, and a spot to rest his weary head? How many had rejected him, shunned him, sent him away? Did one of them now carry a matching mark from his own rough handling? Had he truly been so lost since he left Toulon that the moment didn’t even register at all?

Many people anticipated such a moment for their entire lives. There was at least some expectation of fanfare—stories had been told since the beginning of time, of lovers finding each other, and in each other finding hope or comfort or solace. Of experiencing great joys together, or overcoming overwhelming tragedies.

None of it had ever seemed particularly important to Valjean, especially after he’d been arrested before discovering his match, but faced with the idea that he might have missed what should be the most important connection in his life entirely, he couldn’t help but feel bereft. One more injustice to suffer in an unjust world.

Valjean stopped his restless pacing to stare at the sack in which he carried the Bishop’s silver, his second chance at an honest life. He thought of the Bishop, who had offered him kindness and shelter and salvation. Surely, no one could alter the course of Valjean’s life more than he. 

Could his soulmate possibly compare to that? And did it really matter that he would not know them?

Valjean would have recognized the voice anywhere—he knew it when he heard it in his office at his factory here in Montreuil-sur-Mer just as well as he knew it in the galleys of Toulon. He recognized it even now, clipped and controlled despite being in the midst of a struggle, still attempting to assert his authority while battling against an unmatched foe… 

Javert the sharp-eyed young prison guard was a policeman now, an inspector. He was moving up in the world, just as Valjean had done—although he had moved up only a fraction as much as Valjean had. Such was the plight of an honest man.

Javert wore his authority the same as he had worn it in Toulon, only it seemed less ill-fitting on the mature man than it had when he was younger, his self-possession less based in an air of arrogant superiority and more in hard-won experience.

Until that night, Valjean had not seen the inspector since the day Javert introduced himself to M. Madeleine—or reintroduced, rather—when Valjean shook his hand, straight-backed and confident, steeling himself against the spark of recognition in Javert’s eyes.

Years ago in Toulon, Javert had bid Valjean not to forget him, a somewhat curious demand at the time—and, oh, Valjean had surely not, despite his best efforts! But it seemed Javert had forgotten him no less. He had not said as much, but the look on his face that day had been enough to convince Valjean he ought to beat a hasty retreat from their meeting as soon as he could politely manage. 

He felt some relief that the inspector had not attempted to speak with him again, but his relief was tempered by an ever-present anxiety that felt not unlike Javert’s watchful gaze on the back of his sunburnt neck.

The shabby-looking man who Javert now found himself fending off must have gotten the jump on the inspector, for it was rare that he be outsmarted. His record was strong, verging on perfect, and Valjean could easily admit he would be an asset in the town. That is if he would live long enough to affect any meaningful change—which was certainly in question given the ill-advised position he now found himself in, alone on the outskirts of town.

Javert’s wiry strength was not serving him well against the other man as they grappled and he was in serious danger of being overwhelmed. Valjean had little choice but to intervene. He called out as he started down the road towards the tussling pair and his voice startled them both. The man released his hold on the inspector and fled; Javert crashed down hard onto the cobble street, overbalanced.

Valjean crouched at Javert’s side as the other man shook off the shock of the struggle, and its sudden end. The addled expression on his face cleared when he recognized Valjean and his eyes narrowed.

“Monsieur le Maire.”

“You take reckless chances with your life, Inspector.”

“No more reckless than you,” Javert spat, with much less respect than he had shown at their first meeting here. He had made it sound almost accusatory—but what could he mean? That Valjean should not walk the streets at night? That he should not be alone? Or something else?

“Are you badly injured?”

“I will live,” he said, gruffly.

“I have heard you to be a circumspect, disciplined man, monsieur. Engaging in hand to hand combat with dangerous men while alone in the dark essentially unarmed is neither of those things.” Valjean handed Javert his night stick from where it had clattered out of reach.

“My life is less important than ridding these streets of dangerous men like him,” Javert said, as he tucked the weapon away. “If I should die in the service of it, it would be an honorable death.”

“Are you not worth more in that pursuit alive than dead?” Valjean asked.

Javert did not answer. There was something dark in his gaze that Valjean did not like.

Javert pressed hard with his hand flat against the front of his right shoulder. When he adjusted his grip, Valjean caught a glimpse of a rend in the fabric of his coat and a streak of red upon his skin.

“I saw a knife, did he—”

“He did, indeed.”

“Let me see,” Valjean said, his hand already reaching towards him without a conscious thought.

Javert reflexively pushed himself out of reach, scraping the heel of a boot against the wet stones, hunching to protect his injury. Valjean leant back. To see a man larger and more intimidating than he coiled so tightly in self-defense brought to mind a rangy feral cat, apt to spit and scratch and bite even the hand that seeks to help it. Valjean was no doubt strong enough to harm him should he wish it, but Javert couldn’t know that based on appearance alone. He hardly looked the part of a convict anymore.

“Please, Javert,” Valjean said. “The danger has passed but for your injury. I am not a threat to you.”

Javert looked as though he had a disagreement ready on his tongue but he did not speak. Instead, he reluctantly removed his hand from his shoulder only long enough for Valjean to give it a quick assessment. By the light of nothing more than the stars and the moon, any blood was indistinguishable from the dark fabric of his uniform, but the gash in it was large enough to be worrisome if the knife had cut deeply.

“Your wound might be serious. Let me bring you to my rooms and tend to it.”

“I will tend to it myself,” he said, already moving to stand. “I do not need you to play nursemaid.”

“Inspector, even removing your coat by yourself will do you more damage.”

Javert attempted to find his footing and stumbled back to the cobblestones when he found his knee would not support his weight.

“I must have twisted it as I fell,” he said, almost more to himself than to Valjean.

“All the more reason I must insist you allow me to assist you,” Valjean said, stern. “You are welcome to consider it an order, if it will help to ease your pride.”

He held his hand out, palm up, in the empty space between them. Javert eyed it suspiciously and, with great hesitance, he clasped it, and allowed Valjean to haul him to his feet. 

Valjean pulled Javert’s good arm across his shoulders to support the man’s weight against the swelling of his knee. Javert’s greater height made the position awkward as they started on their way, but Valjean didn’t flinch under the added load. 

It was more of a struggle to help him up the narrow staircase to his rooms, but eventually they succeeded and Valjean led Javert to sit on his bed and moved to light a lamp.

Ignoring the nagging undercurrent of turmoil flowing beneath his more immediate concerns, Valjean helped Javert out of his coat with as much care as he could muster. Something was swirling in his gut, some feeling he could not name.

He had not been alone with this man before in private. It was not danger he felt, exactly… Although, perhaps he should feel danger. Even wounded, Javert could pose a threat to him. All he would need for that was his voice and a well-placed accusation.

Valjean hung the soiled coat on a hook by the door, hoping it would at least dry some before Javert was patched up enough to leave. When he turned back to Javert, his breath caught. He had never seen the man with as much as a whisker out of place before tonight and the image he painted, perched wild and disheveled on the edge of his bed in the flickering lamplight, was one he would not soon forget.

Eventually, he found his voice again. “You should lie back and prop up your knee, for the swelling.”

Valjean was surprised when Javert did as he suggested without argument. Perhaps the pain was strong enough to distract him from his belligerent mood, or perhaps he had truly taken Valjean’s order to heart.

Valjean felt the weight of the other man’s wary attention as he continued to move about the room, fretting over him. He found some spare bedlinen in a cupboard, and rolled them to tuck beneath Javert’s leg to ease the strain. 

Then, he fetched the lamp and brought it to his bedside so he could better examine Javert’s injured shoulder. 

Javert’s ruined shirt was stuck to the wound, saturated with his blood, but the active bleeding was thankfully already beginning to slow. Valjean shook his head.

“This will need stitches.”

“It’s a scratch,” Javert said, dismissive.

“From a lion’s claw, if that’s the case.” He turned for the door. “I will send for a doctor. I’m sure there is one at the hospital who can spare a few moments.”

Valjean returned a short while later with a basin of water and some soft cloths, somewhat surprised to find Javert had not found a way to flee in his absence, despite his sprain. “We should clean the wound while we wait. Best get that bloody shirt off of you next.”

Before Valjean could even reach him, Javert untied his neckcloth one-handed, tugging roughly at the end of the knot until it pulled free. Valjean’s fingers itched to help, but he refrained. Javert’s buttons were next, and again he dealt with them well enough, but when it came time to remove the shirt, he had no real choice but to let Valjean assist him.

Javert bent up at the waist while Valjean tugged his shirt from his trousers, leaning close enough that Valjean could feel warmth from his body. It was not a sensation he was used to in his solitary life, and he fought to stifle the voice in his mind that called it pleasant. He attempted to keep his expression neutral in hopes that Javert would not notice how his closeness affected him.

Valjean held the fabric tight and still as Javert maneuvered his good arm out of the sleeve and then he bunched up the materiel to pull it over his head and ease it off of his injured shoulder and arm without doing more harm than good.

Javert sat back when he had finished, bare now to the waist. Valjean was glad for the low light, for he was sure his face had colored at the impropriety of having this man half naked in his bed. He had not thought such a thing would feel improper, but somehow it did, all the same.

The air was suddenly very thick between them, and Valjean spared half a thought to cracking a window to refresh it before his attention was drawn again to the oozing wound at Javert’s shoulder, unobstructed but for the the drying blood now that they had dispensed with his shirt. And there, not far above the fresh wound, lay a soul mark—a full handprint, not unlike Valjean’s own mark. It appeared nearly as fresh as his knife wound. 

A heat suffused Valjean’s body at the sight of the mark. His mind flashed to the day Javert had taken up his post in the town, acutely aware of the manner in which he had clasped Javert’s shoulder when he shook his hand to welcome him. He had been, perhaps, overly familiar, to match the familiarity in Javert’s eyes. Unwise, maybe, but maybe he wished the man to feel a little of the unease he had felt at seeing him again.

Maybe he had accomplished far more than that with his impulsive decision. Valjean thought if he laid his hand upon this mark in front of him, the shape and size would match precisely. He wondered at the likelihood of a coincidence, despite the bone-deep sense of knowing that had infused his soul the moment his eyes had lit upon the mark. 

After all, had it not been Javert who had shoved him firmly into his life outside of Toulon? He could almost recall an echo of the sensation of that moment, if he thought hard enough. 

The mystery surrounding the appearance of his mark had likely been solved at last. Why else would they be here together like this, if fate had not demanded it? Why else would they be linked across the years?

Any lingering doubt was dashed at once by the inspector’s reaction to his discovery. Their eyes met and locked, and Valjean found the knowing that he felt reflected there.

Javert’s mouth curved almost into a snarl, whether from the pain or the confirmation, Valjean did not know for sure.

“Forgive me,” Valjean said after a moment of stunned silence, ducking his head. “I did not realize. Is there anything that I can do…” Javert scoffed; Valjean shook his head. “If I had known, I wouldn’t have left you so hastily that day.”

“Hasty, yes—you nearly fled. One might wonder why,” he said, in a tone that suggested he did not wonder.

Valjean took a cloth and wet it, and brought it to the wound. Javert sucked in a breath through his teeth.

“If I was rude to you, monsieur, I did not intend it. Much occupies my time, you see, as mayor.”

“I see very clearly. As clearly as I saw no mark upon your hand earlier, Monsieur le Maire. Perhaps we have met elsewhere before, despite your protestations.”

Valjean felt caught out. ‘Perhaps I have touched you elsewhere before,’ was what he implied. If they had only met the other day, and only touched for the first time then, Valjean’s hand would reflect that. The mark between his shoulder blades burned with the hidden truth of their connection, a guilty weight upon his back.

“We may have crossed paths on a busy street—”

“You must think me simple, Monsieur le Maire,” he said, repeating his title with a bizarre amalgamation of esteem and mocking.

“I do not,” Valjean said, quiet and sincere, and there was an odd softening of Javert’s expression that Valjean could not explain. 

The pair studied each other in silence until a knock sounded at the door, breaking them from their scrutiny.

“That will be the doctor.”

The doctor fussed and tutted as he stitched the slash on Javert’s shoulder and tied his injured arm in a sling, more a reminder not to move it much than anything. He gave Javert instructions on how to keep the wound clean and bandaged, and to limit its use while it mended itself, with similar instructions to rest his swollen knee. Javert did not look pleased with any of his recommendations, and Valjean could see the struggle to obey them behind his eyes.

Both Valjean and Javert had noticed the doctor’s mark at nearly the same moment, part of a dainty handprint upon the back of his wrist, and they exchanged a glance. Neither had much reason to note the marks on others in the past, but tonight they were acutely aware of them in a way they never had been before. 

There was a story behind each and every mark—some idyllic, some uncomplicated, some tragic… Their own story was a long and rather thorny one already, but only time would tell where it would take them from here.

The doctor finished his business soon enough and headed on his way. Valjean felt Javert’s gaze settle on him once they were alone again, as Valjean idly began to straighten up the room. He turned to face him, abandoning his cleaning—it was better to be a participant in the watching than it was merely to be watched. He had had enough of that years ago, in Toulon. From the same man, even.

“I see a question in your eyes, Inspector. Why don’t you ask it?”

“I have many questions, monsieur. I doubt you’ll deign to grant me answers.”

“You think them too incendiary.”

Javert laughed, a strange sound. “I know them to be.”

“Pick one with less weight, then, if you can.”

Javert considered that for a moment, running his fingers through the hair on his cheek as he thought. Valjean perched himself on the edge of the bed at his side, and Javert’s nostrils flared as his eyes followed the movement.

He let his hand fall back to his lap and said, “You do not object to be tied in a such a way to a man. There are many who would find shame in it.”

“Is that your question or is it merely an observation?”

“Monsieur le Maire—”

Valjean held up his hand, cutting off Javert’s admonishment at his pedantry. “It is not a surprise to me that it would be so. I have never formed a lasting attachment with a woman.” His eyes moved over Javert’s face. It was clear that he, too, found little shame in being tied to a man. It was Valjean specifically he objected to. “You are not surprised by that aspect of this either.”

Javert’s face grew hot—Valjean could see it even in the low light in the contrast against his still-bare chest and neck, and the clean fabric of his bandage and sling. “I am not, monsieur.”

“There—at least we have managed to find a small fragment of common ground.”

Javert’s lips pulled down into a frown. “You find comfort in our common proclivity?”

“Reassurance, perhaps,” Valjean said. “It would be inconvenient if we did not share it.”

“That is what you would consider inconvenient?”

“What inconvenience should I find in our predicament?”

“You cannot be serious.” Valjean raised his shoulders but said nothing; Javert shook his head in disbelief. “I do not need to voice it,” he said, resolute. “You know as well as I.”

Valjean regarded Javert with his head tilted slightly to one side, weighing how he might respond to him. He ran the risk of goading him into an unpleasant action against him by feigning ignorance, but even still… If Javert planned to use their past as a reason to push back against their connection with each other, well… Valjean would need him to say the words plainly. He wasn’t going to allow all he had built be torn asunder on the strength of one man’s insinuations alone. 

“I’m afraid you will have to explain yourself. I do not hold the same reticence about our being linked with each other that you obviously do. I believe you to be a fine, upstanding man. Anyone should be happy to be your match.”

“This isn’t merely a question of… of incompatibility, or of societal expectations!” Javert exclaimed, and his exasperation imbued his body with an unusual tension. “It is those things, yes, but it is so much more.”

“What on earth do you mean by that?”

“You are not as simple as you pretend to be, Monsieur le Maire. You insult the both of us by continuing this ruse of incomprehension.”

“Perhaps it is you who overestimates me, monsieur. I was but a humble working man before I stumbled my way to good fortune. Pray, spell it out for me.”

It was a surprise Javert had not torn Valjean’s bed sheets, given how tightly he had gripped them in frustration. “I know M. Madeleine to be a fabrication, constructed along with your factory like so many black jet beads.”

“And you know this how? Where is your evidence?”

“On whichever part of your body your soul mark is concealed, monsieur. If my memory serves, it should be upon your back.”

Valjean’s placid smile faltered just a bit. He had been but one prisoner among many, one parolee in a sea of scruffy, dirty faces and battered, broken bodies. Why Javert should remember such a thing after so long sat heavy on his shoulders.

“You must think me someone in particular if you believe you know of my mark.”

“There is someone, of course. Someone from years ago. A former prisoner under my guard. I only permitted myself to touch the man a single time, when he was released; he did not touch me in return.”

“And yet you remember. You must have found some significance in this man.”

Javert’s face flushed dark again and his gaze dropped for a moment in what resembled shame. A thought occurred then to Valjean, a missing bit of context he had not yet considered. Javert had been a young man when they first met. The idea that Valjean might have served as an awakening of sorts for him all those years ago made his own cheeks flush hot as well. It seemed so unlikely that anyone would look upon him in such a way… but Javert had looked. Valjean had seen him. He hadn’t understood it then. He hardly understood it now.

“Significance,” Javert grumbled. “You know little of his significance in my life. The man has plagued my thoughts for years, monsieur. I set him free and barely any time at all passed before he broke his parole and disappeared. I have taken it upon myself to right this disgraceful wrong.”

“Would not your role in his release be only a formality?”

Javert raised his jaw in defiance. “That does not excuse me. I should have seen the potential in him.”

“Surely, there was nothing in your power you could have done.”

Javert made a noise of irritation. “None of this changes the fact that I am now fated to wear your mark like a brand upon my shoulder for life, as if I were…” He trailed off, unable to force the words to leave his lips.

“As if you were a criminal? A convict?” Javert’s jaw clenched so hard it was a wonder his teeth did not crack under the pressure. “One wonders why you would make such an allusion.”

“One wouldn’t wonder if one were honest,” Javert hissed, his head darting forward so there was little space between their faces. All at once he seemed to notice this fact, and he leant back again with conspicuous speed.

They watched each other for a long moment, the only sound in the room their breathing. Valjean was left with the feeling that something had nearly happened between them and had narrowly been avoided. What that something was, he wasn’t sure. He wasn’t sure avoiding it was a good thing, either—there was an air of the unsaid lingering in the room.

“If I were a criminal,” Valjean mused, “why is it that I don’t object to being tied to you?”

“If you do not object to be tied to an officer of the law, then you must mean to corrupt me. You must gain pleasure from the thought of it.”

“If that were the case, I would feel quite stymied, monsieur, as I know you to be incorruptible.”

“You mock me.”

“I do no such thing.”

“We are talking in circles. I grow weary,” Javert said, letting out a heavy sigh and with it the rigid tension that had energized his arguments. Even if he was making excuses to end their conversation, the exertions of the night must have been catching up with him by this late hour. On top of that were his injuries, which would drain even the strongest man. Valjean felt a pit of guilt at keeping him awake with their inane posturing.

Without speaking, Valjean helped Javert to slide down in the bed so he could rest his head on the pillow and, without thinking, he reached to pull the covers up over him. Javert snatched them away with his good arm, staring daggers at Valjean.

“You will not tuck me in like a child,” he growled.

Valjean clenched his hand against the movement and withdrew it. “I hardly see you as a child, monsieur. Tenderness is not reserved for children.”

“Men like us should have no use for tenderness.”

“I disagree. Men like us have an even greater use for it than most.”

Javert scowled. “You would think that, wouldn’t you? You mayor-saint, savior of the working people.”

Valjean felt a hollow pang in his stomach. Talk of tenderness left him melancholy, left his heart aching and his spirit wanting. He thought perhaps he might yet soothe that scowl from Javert’s face, if only for a few moments, if only to soothe the isolation he felt in his own soul. He might even dare to press a goodnight kiss to his furrowed brow… though he didn’t fancy an elbow to the nose for his trouble.

Instead, he reached out a tentative hand to comb his fingers through the hair at Javert’s cheek, as he had seen Javert do himself, but with a softer, lighter touch. There was something very pleasant in the motion, and Valjean wondered if it was their connection speaking to him or something more. Javert, for his part, appeared as if he held his breath, unsure whether to bolt or unbend at the contact. He settled for turning away from Valjean and closing his eyes, but his eyebrows remained furrowed until he drifted off and even then only smoothed a small amount.

Valjean eventually retired to the chair he had brought to the bedside for the doctor, ever careful not to wake Javert when he stood from the bed. A curious feeling fluttered in his chest as he watched the man—he would not have thought in a thousand years Javert would allow himself to sleep in his presence. Was he truly so exhausted, or had Valjean somehow earned some small measure of trust from him? And if he had, was it a conscious trust, or an unconscious one?

It was only a few hours later when Valjean started awake in his chair to find the bed empty. 

His heart immediately began to race. He took a few slow, deliberate breaths to ease his rising panic before he leaned in to feel the bedsheets, and found that they had lost nearly all of their warmth. 

So Javert hadn’t merely gone in search of a chamber pot, then. Of course Valjean would not be so lucky—not where Javert was concerned.

Left alone with his thoughts, Javert’s conflicts must have overwhelmed him. Valjean had done him no real favors towards his mental state, playing around with words and meanings but saying little of substance in response to the genuine dissonance he found in their apparent predestination.

The part of him that worried Javert had gone to contact his superiors with the police was much smaller than the part that worried for his safety. Much smaller than it should have been. In fact, nearly all of Valjean’s choices that night had been rash if he meant to remain free and in a comfortable life, but for some reason he felt there was no other way to face the truth he had learned about the man who had long hunted him.

Quickly, Valjean donned his coat and hat and set off into the night. But which way to go?

His chest felt tight with worry. The night had grown cold and damp in the hours since he first encountered Javert out on the street. There was hardly any light now that the cloud cover had rolled in, and the air had the feeling that it might begin to storm at any moment. 

Valjean couldn’t rest knowing that Javert was alone and injured somewhere out in the darkness. He could not, would not, lose his soulmate as soon as he found him. He had thought he had come to terms with the idea of it, but that was when he hadn’t known what it felt like to look at another person and see them whole in an instant.

Valjean closed his eyes and took a deep, grounding breath, praying for guidance.

He followed the pull he felt in his chest down a little used street, one most people would pass by, but would be equally appealing to those trying to escape the law as to those trying to enforce it. Valjean, of course, knew where it led. Towards the sea. Towards the scene of the night’s earlier debacle.

Valjean’s stomach sank like a stone. He hoped Javert wasn’t foolish enough to try to track down the man who had injured him in his weakened state. He had hardly escaped without serious damage earlier, and that was only due to Valjean’s intervention.

A bit of movement caught Valjean’s eye. In the distance, he could just barely make out the form of the proud man in question hobbling down the path as best as he could with a twisted knee.

Valjean picked up speed to catch up with Javert, and the noise of his footfall grew loud against the hard-packed earth.

Javert’s head turned at the sound and he let out a cry when he recognized Valjean, a cry not unlike the agony of an animal struck with a mortal blow.

“Not you again!”

“Inspector, please wait!”

Javert stumbled as he tried to pick up his pace, his injured knee unable to bend with the speed and dexterity he needed to run; Valjean seized him before he could fall—wrapping his arms around his middle from behind and hauling him upright again. 

“Monsieur le Maire, leave me be!” 

“Inspector, you will tear your stitches.”

Javert continued to struggle against Valjean’s hold and would not have been able to free himself under his own power, which he seemed to realize on his own because all at once, the fight left him and he went still in his arms. 

Valjean loosened his grip when he was sure Javert was stable on his feet, but the other man continued to argue until they were speaking over each other with every sentence. 

“I will leave you be once you are able—”

“I am quite able!”

“It will take your body twice as long to heal if you do not—”

“It is my body in question, monsieur, not yours!”

Valjean caught Javert’s hand as he tried to pass him. 

“Will you stop trying to flee?” Javert stopped short, his attention riveted to Valjean’s hand holding his. “You need your rest to heal, monsieur. I do not wish to do so, but I will carry you back to bed if I must. If you have any hope of dignity, I pray you do what is best for you.”

Valjean gave Javert’s hand a gentle tug. Javert shook himself, tearing his gaze away from their hands with some difficulty to stare at his feet instead. Still, he would not follow.

“You are a stubborn man,” Valjean said. “Rigid.”

“I must be so. My path is straight. If I stray from it…” Javert shook his head, drew himself to his full height. “Enough. I will return to your rooms, but only until morning.”

“And you will not flee again the moment my eyes have closed?”

“I will not.”

“Shall I have you make an oath to that effect?”

Javert looked away and gave another stiff shake of his head. 

Valjean sighed and offered Javert his arm to help steady him as they walked. Reluctant, Javert wrapped his hand around his bicep, just above his elbow.

“I only wish to know that you will be well, monsieur. Surely, that is not an unreasonable request from one’s soulmate.”

“I have already agreed to come with you, there is no need to remind me of… that,” Javert said, his voice but a harsh whisper.

“Is it so terrible, Javert? To be linked to me?”

“It is terrible that you do not find it terrible, monsieur.”

“I don’t understand.”

“I am afraid I would not be able to explain it in my current state.”

Valjean’s eyebrows knit together in sympathy. It must be difficult for Javert to admit to any weakness at all, and that was what had been demanded of him at every turn that night. He reached out and patted the hand wrapped around his arm. “Come. I know a shortcut.”

Days later, Valjean found himself at his desk in his office at the factory, doing anything he could to keep his mind occupied and as far away from bewildering thoughts of soulmates and police inspectors as possible. There was always mindless busywork for him to do running the town in addition to such a successful enterprise, but the problem with busywork was that it wasn’t quite distracting enough on its own to hold his attention. 

He didn’t feel he was up to some of his other customary late night activities—with his mind elsewhere, he was liable to make missteps along the way in his clandestine almsgiving and the last thing he needed was for someone to contact the police because they caught him breaking into their house to leave them money. 

Valjean didn’t dare imagine what Javert’s reaction would be to such an incident. He didn’t dare purposely imagine Javert at all since the night they had discovered the truth of their connection. Still, there was an image of Javert in his mind—an image that rose unbidden at all hours of the day and night, an image Valjean could not erase from his mind no matter how hard he wished it. 

It was the lingering image of Javert in his bed that haunted him so, as much for his fierce stubbornness and spirited disagreements as for the odd and unexpected moments when he deigned to accept tenderness from Valjean. His spectre loomed especially large in his absence, and so Valjean remained at the factory until late into the night, unable to face the cold emptiness of his rooms unless he was moments from sleep.

Valjean hadn’t seen Javert since the morning after he had come to Javert’s aid, when he had helped Javert leave his rooms shortly before dawn. Javert had refused any offer of food or drink, but Valjean had insisted he take a walking stick with him to help compensate for his twisted knee. He had pressed the stick into his hand and closed Javert’s fingers around it, and for a moment, Javert had fallen silent, his every argument dying a swift death on his tongue as he held Valjean in his gaze until Valjean took his hand away again, fingers dragging against fingers.

Valjean hardly understood what had come over him that morning. It was only by the skin of his teeth that he stopped himself from begging Javert not to leave until he was well, despairing at the thought of never again experiencing the warmth and the comfort that came with doting on a person in such an intimate way, a person who, despite Valjean’s refusal to confirm their shared past, knew more about him than anyone else on this earth.

Now that Valjean’s soul had gotten a taste of such a thing, it did not want to return to a world of lack—even though that was still a very real possibility. A likely one, even. If Javert had any proof to back his suppositions, he could very well decide to turn him over to the police for breaking his parole, soul marks be damned. Javert was certainly stubborn enough—and principled enough—to split his soul in twain if it meant fulfilling his duty.

Valjean buried his face in his hands, pressing his fingers into his weary eyes. His life had never been easy or simple. It was foolish of him to think it might start to be at this point in time.

 The sound of footsteps on the staircase leading to his office interrupted Valjean’s drowsy solitude. The hairs on the back of his neck stood on end as he listened, for even though there was no reason to think it—it was the middle of the night, after all—there was a part of him that knew who the footsteps belonged to before he had any right to know.

“Monsieur le Maire?” he heard, in Javert’s clipped tone, followed by the sound of his night stick against the wooden door. Javert did not wait for Valjean to answer his knock before he entered. “Have you no locks in this building? It is a wonder no one has robbed you blind.”

Valjean was struck dumb by Javert’s question. It was such an inconsequential topic, it hardly felt like it should even be discussed in the middle of the night, much less during an unplanned visit between two men who were at once strangers and soulmates. Valjean took a moment to study Javert in hopes of determining the risk he might pose to him. The man was still dressed in his police uniform despite the lateness of the hour. It seemed the swelling in his knee had gone down to the point where he only had a slight limp, but he still held his shoulders in such a way as to suggest lingering discomfort there, if not pain. He did not appear to be there to arrest Valjean, though he gripped his night stick tightly enough in front of him that his knuckles were white.

“To what do I owe the pleasure at this late hour, Inspector?”

At Valjean’s question, Javert doffed his hat and Valjean had to struggle not to think of the last time he had seen him without it perched atop his head.

“I needed to speak with you, monsieur,” Javert said. “You were not at home, but I saw a light in the window here from the street and I determined it would either be you or a particularly foolish thief in the night. Though perhaps there is little difference.”

Valjean winced internally at Javert’s little dig. With anyone else, he might assume it was merely a joke in poor taste, but Javert knew him, knew his crime. His crimes.

“I have been here everyday, as well, overseeing my workers. Is there a reason you did not come to me during the working hours?”

“I did not wish to make a scene.”

Ah. Perhaps he planned to arrest him after all. Indeed, he retrieved a set of shackles from the pocket of his greatcoat and began to approach… but he set them on Valjean’s desk and lay his night stick beside them.

“What is this?”

Javert straightened his back and shoulders (not without difficulty) and stood at attention, his chin high and proud. “You must insist I be let go from my post.”

“On what grounds?” Valjean asked, incredulous. Javert’s face showed an internal battle, but he said nothing more. Valjean took to his feet and rounded the desk to stand in front of him. “On what grounds, Inspector? Have you committed some sort of grievous offense since I last saw you?”

Almost unconsciously, Javert angled his head to glance at his stiff shoulder, where Valjean’s mark lay hidden. “You are well aware of what grounds, monsieur.” 

“Enlighten me.”

Javert clenched his jaw.

“I am not suited to introspection.”

“Introspection?”

“The situation is quite simple, though my mind has tortured me with it since you shook my hand. You know who I believe you to be. If I am to be tied to a criminal, I must be no better than he. The connection must reveal my true nature. I have been deluding myself, thinking I could escape it.”

“How old are you, Javert?”

“Monsieur le Maire?” he said, and looked down to meet Valjean’s gaze, confused at the non sequitur.

“Do you not think you know yourself, at your age?”

Javert’s eyes flashed and he took an aborted step towards Valjean. “Did you know yourself at my age?”

 A challenge, yes. An effective one, at that. Valjean had not yet been born anew at Javert’s age. He had thought himself tainted then, too.

“You truly still believe me to be this man you seek?”

“I know it. I know it like I know my own name.”

Valjean let out a sigh. “You are very sure of yourself, Javert. All the more reason for you to stay on as Inspector.”

“You realize you imply that I am correct with such an assessment,” he said, a statement rather than a question, one tinged with bemusement.

“Say that you are correct—”

“I am.”

Valjean pursed his lips, quickly losing his patience.

“Say that you are correct,” he repeated. “You can hardly be blamed for the identity or character of your soulmate. It is not something we can control, and it is not a reflection of our own virtue.”

“Either deny my accusations outright or confirm them, monsieur. These half-measures drive me to madness.”

“There is no reason for you to leave your post. You do good work, monsieur. That is true regardless of who I am.”

“How can I stand before God and man and pretend I still retain full confidence in my abilities as a discerning officer of the law, knowing what I know?”

“I doubt God would be so cruel as to tie a virtuous man to an irredeemable beast.”

“Your wordplay is deception itself. You are a silver-tongued viper, Monsieur le Maire,” he said. “Rather than allow me to degrade myself, you build yourself up above your station.” 

“You think me a lowly convict and yet you address me by my title.” 

“Monsieur—”

“Is there nothing I can do to rebuild your opinion of me?”

“Bare your chest,” Javert said, without a pause, without a thought.

“I beg your pardon!”

There was a moment where it looked as if Javert might regret making such a demand, but the moment passed quickly when the reality of Valjean’s failure to comply began to sink in.

“You will not do it,” Javert said, his tone tinged with disbelief. There was a slight vibration to his rigid body, as if he could not entirely contain his excitement at the prospect of being proven correct. “You cannot do it. It would reveal the truth.” 

All at once Javert became a hunter, one who had cornered his vulnerable prey at long last. He stalked closer and closer, languid and smooth, until Valjean’s thighs collided with the desk and Valjean had to crane his neck to meet his eye. Javert took one end of Valjean’s cravat between his fingers and said, his voice low and dangerous, “Perhaps I will bare it myself.”

Valjean closed his hand around Javert’s wrist firmly, but with only a fraction as tight a grip as he could muster—a warning, but also a kind of confirmation in itself, even if that was not Valjean’s intention. “I think you will not.”

Javert dropped the fabric and his head bowed as he took a swift stride backwards. “Forgive me, monsieur. I overstep.”

Valjean still held Javert’s wrist and could feel the rapidness of his pulse beneath his fingers. “Javert.” He swiped his thumb across the inside of his wrist and the man shuddered under his touch. “Look at me.”

Javert’s eyes snapped up to meet Valjean’s and there was an anguish in them that made his chest ache.

“Monsieur le M—” Valjean lay a finger across Javert’s lips and the man sucked in a harsh breath in surprise, but did not pull away. Valjean’s eyes slid shut for a moment as he steeled himself for what might come of this night, but he took a steadying breath and opened them again.

“I beg you not call me that,” he said, his voice low, calming, but still Javert’s eyes widened. “I do not mean to cause you frustration, or pain. Surely, you must understand that I am… in a precarious position. You… You are perhaps the only man who might understand it.”

Javert made an odd noise, high in his throat. Valjean lowered his hand from his lips. “Who am I, Javert, who causes you such consternation?”

“You are Jean Valjean,” he said, breathless, his eyes flying over Valjean’s face as if merely uttering the name aloud would cause some sort of metamorphosis. “I have hunted you, monsieur, for years. I have dogged your every step. Somehow, it is only when I stop that I catch you.”

“Perhaps that is what fate intended,” Valjean mused.

Javert shifted from foot to foot, and Valjean could feel him clench his hand into a fist where he still held him by the wrist. His other hand surely mirrored it.

“Are you all right?”

Javert took another shaky breath and said, almost panicked, “It must be the mark. Ever since you and I… It seems as though any passing thought or fancy becomes much more acute.”

“Are you saying bearing the mark has created sentiments in you that you would otherwise not—”

“No,” he interrupted, sharply. “But I fear it draws my attention to where I would rather it not be. It amplifies sentiments to the degree that I cannot ignore them or attribute them elsewhere.”

Valjean’s thoughts raced. “You mean to say that you had already harbored certain sentiments towards me…”

Javert gave a desperate nod. “I thought them… different. Before. I confused them for something righteous. I was wrong.”

“Who is to say they are not righteous?”

“What I want from you cannot be righteous. The righteous path I am quite sure of. I have followed it for many years.”

Javert had veered from holding Valjean in his gaze with great intensity to making no eye contact at all. Valjean felt the loss like a buzzing beneath his ribs.

“What is it that you want from me, then?”

“I…” He trailed off and cleared his throat, working his jaw wordlessly until he could convince his voice to speak again. “I desire you, monsieur.”

Valjean’s stomach flipped.

“You—”

“Yes.” Javert swallowed thickly, and continued. “For many years, as well.”

“Oh.”

“I do not see why this is such a surprise to you,” he said, risking a brief glance. “You are a handsome man. Surely, there have been others.”

“Not any that I am aware of.”

“I saw how men looked at you,” he said, and added, almost an afterthought, “and women, now, in the town.”

“That may well be true, Javert, but as I said, I was not aware. I only saw you.”

Javert wrenched his wrist free of Valjean’s grasp at last. “Now who is it who is dissembling?” he snapped, beginning to pace the room.

“I do no such thing!” Valjean exclaimed, and Javert scoffed. “Is it so difficult to imagine my attention might be drawn to my soulmate even then?” he asked. “Even if I did not know the reason for it? Is that not what you experienced also?”

“Perhaps the universe is cruel. I thought it just. This is a divine joke. A punishment for the accident of my birth.” At Valjean’s confused frown, Javert continued, “I was born inside a prison. It is only fitting I discover my match there as well.”

“Javert… I did not know that.”

“Of course you didn’t. How would you know?”

“I… I suppose I would have no way of knowing unless you chose to share it.” Valjean laid his hand over his heart and inclined his head towards Javert. “I thank you for entrusting me with something so personal.”

Javert cleared his throat and looked away, blinking rather rapidly.

“Men like us… we’re more alike than we are different,” he said. “You stirred something in me all those years ago, monsieur. I considered you a reminder of what could become of me if I strayed from my duty and, if I allowed myself to think on it, a… a grave temptation to do so, also.

“I thought I had found a place for those feelings, but it has all gone wrong. The temptation is now far greater than the reminder. I resent the sudden change even more than I resent your broken parole, and that is unseemly of me. Personal trials should not hold more importance than the public good.”

“You judge yourself harshly. As harshly as you judge any man.”

“Of course. It is only just.”

Valjean gathered the shackles and night stick from his desk and held them out; Javert grabbed hold of the shackles, but Valjean’s grip held firm. 

“Tell me, Javert… After what you have learned about me since you came to this town, could I not still be a reminder of what a man could become if he so wishes? If he is given the opportunity to change his path? Perhaps that is another question for you to consider.”

 After a long, pregnant pause, Valjean let go of the shackles and Javert returned them to his pocket. He took the night stick and tucked it beneath his arm, gripping it nearly as tightly as he had when he arrived. 

Javert stopped and faced Valjean from the doorway; he returned his hat to his head, gave a stiff bow, spun on his heel, and disappeared down the stairs into the night.

To say Javert’s life had been irrevocably altered since he first set foot in Montreuil-sur-Mer would be a grievous understatement. It had even been his intention when he took up his post there—put in a few years under the good-natured mayor in the quiet, well-run town and he would soon move on to bigger and better things. 

Then he had gone to introduce himself to M. Madeleine and the world had fallen out from beneath his feet, with only the man’s hand to keep him from falling with it. 

It had taken precisely as long as it took for the mayor to stand and cross the room to greet him for Javert to fit the shape and size and movement of him onto the missing puzzle piece labeled 24601 in his mind’s eye. 

In his shock, he doubted himself right away, doubted it even when the man took his shoulder in his grasp and shook Javert’s hand, too jovial, too presumptuous for his reputation. He doubted it until he saw the mayor’s mark upon his shoulder.

It was almost as if he had always expected Valjean to be the one. For so long, he bore no mark. Whoever could have been meant to leave one, if not Valjean? Who else in his life had taken up so much of his attention? Who else ever could?

It was inescapable—he had been so fixated on the man, it could only mean something significant, even if he didn’t know exactly what. Well, now he knew. 

Valjean was destined to change him.

Javert knew his transformation began the moment Valjean’s hand touched his shoulder, that when the crushing bands of inevitability had tightened around his chest as he caught sight of the mark in his shaving mirror, the process had already started. 

If Javert could tell that man, the man he was but a few short weeks ago, what was to come, he would think he had gone quite mad—and perhaps he had. 

Javert’s weekly meetings with the mayor had come to serve as a guidepost in the storm of turmoil that plagued his thoughts. Valjean himself was a balm, for when Javert was in his presence, he could not see his duty to the law so readily, overshadowed as it was by his duty to the man, to his soulmate. The stolen moments he could manage to spend with him within the obligations of his work kept him anchored, else he might be torn from his own moorings. 

Valjean was not one to wish him on his way quickly, and Javert was so unaccustomed to having someone in his life who went out of their way to spend extra time with him that the novelty of it kept him in Valjean’s office past his prescribed length of visit often. And so as the weeks passed, they began to speak not only of his weekly report to fill the time, but of topics great and small, important and inconsequential. 

Conversation flowed easily between the two men, perhaps more than it ever had for Javert. Javert had begun to allow himself to feel a strange kind of peace at the experience of being known by another. He found he did not have to keep such a rigid guard up in Valjean’s presence, for Valjean was not constantly measuring him against what polite society expected of him and finding him lacking.

Javert wasn’t sure what made it so. Perhaps their shared history, perhaps their shared loneliness… though Javert had never given that feeling a name. He hadn’t felt it, truly felt it, often—but when it came, it could be crushing. It had always been simpler to stamp it out than to acknowledge it.

The topic of the day on this particular afternoon had turned to Valjean himself, and how he had come to afford the effort to change himself so thoroughly, for Javert could be curious if a subject bore enough importance to him and the subject of Valjean bore the most importance of all.

“It was a gift that enabled me to rise to my current position, a gift bestowed upon me by a saintly Bishop, who had seen me at my lowest and took it upon himself to save me from the world and from myself.”

“A gift of silver?” Javert prompted and Valjean nodded in confirmation. “That incident is marked down on your record as a theft.”

A dark shadow of distress passed over Valjean’s familiar features then, and the feeling the shadow stirred in Javert caught him by surprise. It was an expression that once would have brought him a great deal of satisfaction, to be sure—but no more. No, it was no longer satisfying to see Valjean look trapped or panicked. It was no longer satisfying to think of him in terms of prey to be hunted or a convict to be captured.

Javert could feel Valjean withdrawing more into himself by the moment and the sudden change in the air between them started the blood to quicken in his veins. 

Valjean’s voice had chilled when he spoke again, and grown formal and distant. “If you believe I am misrepresenting what happened, Inspector—”

“That is not what I said, Monsieur le Maire,” Javert said, sharply, unconsciously reverting to his title. “I merely stated what your record shows, not what I believe of it. I was unaware until this moment that your story might differ from the official account.”

“You have also doubted my explanation for stealing a loaf of bread.”

“I have not doubted it. Motivation matters little when a crime has clearly been committed.”

Valjean’s face shuttered. “I realize it would be at great odds with your principles, monsieur,” he said, his voice carefully flat, “but if you might let me have a few days to put my affairs in order before you send off any letters denouncing me to your superiors—”

“I cannot denounce you,” Javert said at once, clipped and sure. “They will know who you are to me.”

Valjean’s brow furrowed. “How would they know?”

Javert pursed his lips. Surely, Valjean could not be serious. Surely, the source of Javert’s conflict would be obvious to anyone. Surely, Valjean would have realized even had they lived in a reality where the soul marks did not exist. Some things a man cannot disguise forever. Valjean should know that better than most.

He met Valjean’s gaze and held it. “They will know,” he repeated.

Valjean leaned back in his chair and took a moment to study Javert; the scrutiny felt like an itch against his skin and he shifted his feet at the sensation, making his own chair creak against the floorboards. 

“If you are sure, then perhaps I may rest easy, in that regard?”

Javert’s eyebrows drew together. “Have I given the impression I would turn you in? Since our connection became clear, I thought it obvious I would not.”

Valjean gave an odd, strangled laugh. “Perhaps less obvious outside of your mind, Inspector.”

Javert felt his face heat. “Forgive me. It was not my intention to cause you to fear for your position here. I have”—he cleared his throat against the rasp of unfamiliar emotion—“I have grown accustomed to our talks, monsieur. I would hope you do not see fit to cut them short now.”

“Please don’t misunderstand me—this has not been a constant fear. Though there was a small part of me that worried that you had gone to your superiors when you disappeared from my rooms the night you were injured.”

“That… was not the action I found myself contemplating that night, monsieur.” At the confusion on Valjean’s face, he continued. “I could not turn you in without implicating myself, or condemning the citizens of your town along with you. It was, and still remains, my duty to do so, but I cannot.”

“This conflict causes you much distress.”

Javert gave a humorless laugh. “My thoughts run ragged, monsieur. Still. There is but one clear solution that absolves me of my duty and preserves your thriving town, but I find I lack the drive to pursue it beyond contemplation.”

Valjean’s face fell, and his eyes, usually bright and sometimes warm, clouded with grief. “All because of me, Javert?”

“Because of myself. Because I thought I could not handle…” He shook his head. “It is no matter. In the end, it solves nothing.”

“It would leave me quite bereft if you were to pursue that course, Javert,” Valjean said, his frown lines etched deep, and suddenly every moment of the decade between them was plain to see. “I think it important you know that. I would miss our talks, as well.”

“Monsieur…”

“Is it too much to hope that with time your troubles might lessen?”

“I cannot say. I have never before been faced with such a… a crisis of faith in my life. I might as easily grapple with trying to reconcile the opposing obligations for a week as for a decade for all I know. As I’ve said, I’m not suited to introspection.”

“Well, that is an honest answer, at least,” Valjean said, with a shadow of disappointment clouding his face; Javert’s wooden heart struggled with the sensation the disappointment evoked. “For that I give you credit.”

“I have never had much talent for lying, monsieur.”

Valjean huffed a breath of a laugh. “And I have too much. What a pair we make, hmm?”

Javert found himself captivated by the manner in which the dying light fell across Valjean’s faint smile for a long moment before he realized quite what such a vision would imply.

“I apologize. I’m afraid my thoughts have gotten away from me rather often, as of late. If we are still to discuss my latest report, I should escort you to your home. The darkness looms near.”

Valjean examined his face with a furrow in his brow. “If you were ever in need of some time off of work—”

“I beg of you, monsieur, that would be worse.”

“All right.” He reached across the desk and patted Javert’s forearm, reassured but still wary. “But please know that I would offer help in any way that I am able.”

“You would offer the shirt off your back if it would not bare your scars for all to see.”

Valjean’s gaze caught on Javert in surprise at his words, and the earnestness in them.

“Your opinion of me has changed these past few weeks.”

“Is that not what you wished?” Javert responded, and he watched Valjean in silence until a shout from the factory floor dragged their attention from each other.

The sea of workers parted as Valjean and Javert swept down the stairs into the factory, leaving only the foreman and a young woman alone at the center of the room. Valjean approached the pair and Javert followed more slowly, keen to observe the seemingly effortless authority now possessed by a man who once held none. 

“What is the problem, monsieur? What is the cause of all this commotion?”

“This woman here disrupts order on the factory floor with her hysterics. She must be let go.”

The woman in question looked unassuming enough—frightened, surely, and near to despondent, but otherwise artless. Not an obvious troublemaker, at any rate.

“Pray, what is your name?” Valjean asked.

“Fantine, Monsieur le Maire,” the woman said, with a small bow of her head.

“How long have you been employed in my factory, Fantine?”

“Over a year, M. Madeleine,” she said.

“Over a year? And is this the first complaint lodged against you?”

“I believe it is, monsieur.”

“She’s being sacked for behavior unbecoming of a worker in your esteemed factory, M. Madeleine. She is lucky that is all she gets for the trouble she’s caused.”

“What crime has she committed, monsieur?” 

A moment of silence followed Javert’s interjection. The foreman had not expected an interruption from him, and Valjean narrowed his eyes at Javert, curious. The woman, who stood trembling and teary between Valjean and the foreman, snuck a cautious, wary glance at Javert from beneath her fringe.

“What crime, monsieur?” he pressed.

“Read the harlot’s letter for yourself, Inspector,” the foreman said, reaching to try to snatch the paper from where the woman had hastily tucked it into her bodice. When she pulled away before he could take it, he raised his hand as if to strike her; Javert stuck out his night stick to press against the man’s arm, halting its progress. 

“You forget yourself, Monsieur Foreman,” he warned. 

Amidst the tenseness of the squabble, Valjean turned his attention again to the woman.

“You have a letter, Fantine?” he said gently, an aside only to her. “Might I see it?”

Eyes fixed on the foreman, who had not backed away from Javert’s stick, the woman took the letter from her dress and handed it to Valjean.

Valjean unfolded the letter and read on.

“Is this all that she is guilty of?” Valjean asked, incredulous, once he had finished. “You would toss this poor woman out into the street for this? It is barely even a minor offense, if it is an offense at all!”

“Monsieur le Maire, you must understand—we can’t have workers with such loose morals polluting the innocent souls among us.”

Valjean dropped his voice and said, “A woman attempting to care for her sickly child with great privacy and discretion hardly pollutes the innocent. In fact, I believe no one would know of the child at all if the contents of this letter had not exposed her.” Stern, Valjean added, “You will not dismiss her.” 

“But Monsieur le—”

“M. Madeleine has made his decision,” Javert interrupted, with finality. 

The foreman clenched his jaw and Valjean held him in his gaze. “I will not go so far as to force an apology from you for your oversight, because it means little without the sentiment backing it, but I would urge you to search your soul to see if you might find the motivation to improve yourself.”

“My morals are not in question here!”

“They could easily be, good monsieur.”

“Brats like hers put a strain on us all, first as sickly children and then as vagrant adults who beg for scraps on the street,” the foreman spat. “It’s always girls like her who are to blame. Silly, gullible little girls who fall from grace over little more than a few flattering compliments and a showering of gifts, and turn disreputable to pay for their transgressions.”

“I am the son of such a girl, monsieur. I have made something of myself, have I not?” Javert asked, his tone deceptively calm. “Do I beg for scraps on the street?”

The foreman cut a sharp glance towards Valjean. “You have made something of yourself, all right, Inspector—what you beg for not everyone has puzzled out yet.”

Javert’s back straightened at the foreman’s comment, at the vulgar amusement dancing behind his boorish eyes. No one had yet been bold enough or foolish enough to make such insinuations to his face, though he had overheard whispers starting in the town already. “Speak your meaning plainly, monsieur,” he said, moving to tower over him. “Hide not behind innuendos.”

It was then that Javert felt Valjean’s hand settle upon his shoulder, felt a twinge in his mark, as if it recognized its maker. It was difficult to mask his reaction to the sensation, and he was not sure he succeeded.

“The matter is settled,” Valjean said firmly, and then louder to the factory at large, “All of you, go on about your day, see to your families.”

As the workers disbursed, the foreman stalked around, too close, too agitated to even pretend at professionalism at that moment. He only just missed colliding with Javert as he moved past him, as intentional a threatening posture as Javert had seen. Javert stopped him again, his night stick against his chest.

“You will leave the woman be, and there shall be no attempt at retaliation against her for this day, Monsieur Foreman. I will be watching.” 

Making good on his vow already, Javert’s eyes followed the foreman until he disappeared from the factory floor. It was only then that Javert was able to shake the zeal of the exchange from his mind, and remember himself.

A glance to his side revealed that Valjean’s face was impassive as he observed Javert.

“Walk with me, Inspector,” he said, and Javert followed dutifully after as they quit the factory and at last began the route towards Valjean’s rooms.

They had put some distance between themselves and the factory before Valjean spoke again. “I see my foreman has struck a nerve.”

“Your foreman nearly struck that woman, monsieur. Have you no vetting process, or do you take everyone’s virtue at their word?”

“Gossip goes to their heads.”

“Gossip can sink reputations.”

“I will see to it they all leave that poor woman alone—do not fret.”

“I don’t speak only of her reputation, monsieur,” Javert said. “Your foreman suspects an affinity between us. Though he likely suspects something much more lurid than the truth, I cannot help but worry…”

“Would you prefer we end our talks in order to avoid giving fuel to rumors?”

Javert felt stricken at the mere thought. “I would not.”

“Good. I would not, either.” Valjean gave Javert an assessing glance. “Is it the danger to your reputation that grieves you, Javert, or mine?”

Javert averted his gaze, embarrassed at being read so easily, which to Valjean was as good as a confession.

“When your opinion of a person changes, it changes quickly,” Valjean said, a hint of wonder in his tone.

“Once I find myself on the precipice,” Javert admitted, “it is already far too late to climb down again.”

They walked in uneasy silence for a few long moments before Javert collected himself and cleared his throat. 

“In any case,” he said, “the rumors I speak of will only grow now that they have started swirling. We have given your workers a memorable sight tonight—an unfortunate though otherwise inconsequential woman shielded by the mayor and his loyal attack dog whom he can calm with a single touch.”

“Should I not have intervened?”

“That is not my issue, monsieur.” Javert’s hand hovered over the small of Valjean’s back, ushering him along without daring to fully touch him. “Come, let us discuss this in a more private place.”

“May I take your coat, Javert?”

“Thank you, monsieur.”

“Have tea with me while you’re here.”

Valjean’s request brought Javert up short, though perhaps it shouldn’t have. On the rare occasion he found himself in Valjean’s rooms over the past few weeks, Valjean always seemed reluctant to see him leave them, plying him with tea, with coffee, with some small sweet indulgence to go along, with supper… or even rarer still, with a nightcap if the visit ran especially late. 

Each time Javert made the choice to accept, he felt as if he’d stepped off into the empty air above a chasm. Tonight was no different. Although, he had a more legitimate reason to accept Valjean’s invitation tonight than on most nights…

“All right,” he said, and Valjean’s shoulders sagged in relief. 

As Valjean puttered about preparing tea, Javert began to suspect he was purposely delaying their conversation—why, though, he could not say.

Once he had finished, Valjean handed Javert his teacup directly and it was all Javert could do to keep the tea from sloshing when their fingers brushed each other along the saucer.

“Now, what was it we were here to discuss?” Valjean said, taking a seat beside Javert on the chaise in front of the fireplace, with ignorance so well-feigned that for the first time, Javert did not wonder how he had come to find himself in his current position.

“The rumors spreading in the streets, monsieur, though I know you are quite aware.” Valjean sighed and gestured for him to continue before taking a sip of his tea. “I have begun to hear whispered rumors surrounding how I attained my position here in Montreuil-sur-Mer. People have noticed how often you and I are in one another’s company and have started to invent reasons for it.” 

“It is no one’s business with whom I associate, or how often.”

“But that does not matter—they make it their business. Judging by what I’ve overheard, they believe I provide you with… favors… in exchange for your good word with my superiors.”

“Favors?”

“Yes, monsieur,” he confirmed, and he knew his face had reddened.

“What on earth would make them jump to such a conclusion? Your work is more than skillful enough for you to have gained your position legitimately. They need only ask around.”

Javert took a long draw from his teacup to soothe the ache in his chest.

“There are many reasons for people to look at us askance; some even hold a kind of merit. We are both solitary men. Men with no obvious vices, who are both… secretive to some extent. Neither of us has ever been linked with anyone of the fairer sex, by word or deed,” he explained. “Our familiarity also does us a disservice, I think, monsieur. For supposed strangers, we flocked together rather quickly. Even without our shared history, that is often the way of… men like us.”

“And by that, you mean men—”

“Men who, if they were to seek company, would seek it with other men.” 

Valjean cleared his throat and raised his cup to his lips. “I believe such things were decriminalized in my youth,” he said, and took a sip, avoiding Javert’s eye.

Javert wondered if Valjean had memorized such a fact for the same reason he had done so when he was young—to quell his own misgivings over his inclinations.

“The activities themselves are not illegal, but repeated assignations between the mayor and his police inspector would still be a scandal, even if no preferential treatment resulted from it.”

“Ah. Of course.” 

“My apologies. I do not pretend to be more worldly than you, monsieur.”

“No, do not worry, Javert… Outside of what I witnessed in the galleys, I have no doubt you are. This has never been a subject with which I am well-versed.”

“I am not well-versed through first-hand experience, either, merely through observation.”

“Well, then—we have that in common, as well.” Valjean set aside his teacup, and with it, let out a heavy breath. “So you are saying some of our trouble is brought about because we reveal too much inadvertently.”

Javert inclined his head. “As long as they remain focused on the more prurient of rumors, I doubt they will suspect the true manner of our connection. Not everyone is quick to understand as fate does that those like us are bound by nature and not merely by convenience or choice. Still, that does not lessen the blow to our reputations.”

“I wish you would not feel shame in these insinuations,” Valjean said, quite earnest and somber. The words tightened in Javert’s chest until they formed a knot.

“There is shame in it because I would not trade favors for any sort of personal gain—that much is certain. However…” Javert exhaled, forcing air from his lungs in hopes the ache might lessen, and when that failed, he hunched over, his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands. “They would not be incorrect in guessing at my desire to please you, monsieur. In exactly the manner they suspect. So there is shame in it because that is true, and somehow I am… transparent enough others can see it.”

Valjean laid his hand against the back of Javert’s bowed head. The warmth and weight of it felt like a blessing, an absolution. 

“You should feel no shame in that which is freely given.”

Javert sat upright again swiftly and Valjean’s hand slipped from his head down to his neck; he did not remove it. “But would you take what I would offer? Would you accept such a thing from me?”

In lieu of an answer, Valjean tugged at Javert until they were quite close, and then wrapped his other arm around Javert to pull him against his chest. 

Javert’s skin heated wherever they touched, not unlike the moment when his mark was made. The connection did not work that way, he knew. It was only the first touch that would burn him so… but the warmth of Valjean’s body against his own still seared his flesh like the coals from a fire.

Quite deliberately, Valjean moved to recline; Javert followed readily after, his thoughts flying as his body tipped and lowered, stretched along the chaise, and Valjean. 

Javert held himself tightly wound, muscles braced, and he could not quite relax despite the fingers stroking at his nape. He hadn’t felt gangling since he was young, he had matured into his body long ago, but tonight his longer limbs and body threatened to bury the man beneath him, and he hoped his weight would not—a worry Javert had not ever had need to entertain before tonight.  

If Valjean had any complaints, though, he did not voice them. Javert felt lips nuzzle at his brow, first tentative and curious, and then surer in a kiss.

“I’ve wished to do that since that first night,” Valjean whispered, and it sounded like a confession, his breath stirring the hairs that had slipped from their tie at the back of Javert’s neck to spill across his face. “I’ve wished to…” He trailed off with a sigh. “Rest assured, Javert, you are not alone in your desires.”

“I’d wager you do not share in all of them.”

“Is that so?” Valjean said, and Javert could feel the rumble of laughter in his chest beneath him. “Which desire do I not share, then, hmm?”

“I doubt you have ever desired to catch me, but rather to flee at the very sight of me.”

“I did not know you hunted me until I saw your face again. And I didn’t go so very far once you found me, did I?” he asked, his voice tinged warm with amusement. “You’ve caught me, as you said, when I did not run. That might not hold the satisfaction you had built it up to have, however.” 

“There is a different sort of satisfaction in it.”

Valjean’s lips quirked into a smile, pressed against his skin. “You think so?”

“I do,” he said.

“This is a quiet town. I don’t know what it might offer you to compare with chasing after me across the years,” Valjean mused. “If you find yourself adrift without your cause, perhaps a new one is what would help you find your way. A new focus.”

“Perhaps such things are a worry for another day,” Javert said, to which Valjean happily hummed his agreement.

With conscious thought, Javert willed his body to relax into the cushions, into Valjean’s embrace. He thought of Valjean’s words, the night he slept in his bed, of tenderness and men’s need of it. 

Tenderness had set Valjean on his current path, tenderness that molded and transformed, but did not shy away from truth. Perhaps such a thing was not beyond Javert’s capability to offer, as well as receive. He had never had reason to try, nor someone with which to share it. 

He found Valjean’s hand where it rested loosely at his rib cage and enfolded in his own against his chest atop the spot where his heart thudded. His thumb traced the skin, thickened at the wrist, and Valjean shuddered out a sigh, breath washing over his face again, drawing a drowsiness from Javert that he had not noticed until that moment.

Perhaps it would not hurt to allow his eyes to rest for a few moments before he ventured back into the chilled night air.

Days of fear and tension unknotted themselves in Valjean’s gut when he opened his door to find Javert in the hall.

“Javert, thank God!” He pulled Javert into his rooms by the broad lapels of his greatcoat and shut the door firmly behind him. “You left no record of where you might be found. I’ve not seen or heard from you in so long, I was afraid something terrible had happened.”

“I am well, monsieur. It did not occur to me that someone might worry.”

Valjean thought to lift his hand to Javert’s face, but laid it against his collarbone instead, hoping the firm touch would impress upon him his sincerity. “Perhaps it will occur to you the next time.”

Javert looked down at the hand on his chest for a moment before nodding, not his usual sharp nod that was almost a bow, but one so tentative and small that Valjean almost missed the movement in the low light.

So focused was he on seeing him well, it was only then that Valjean realized Javert wasn’t in his uniform, nor his usual choice of clothing for the rare occasions he encountered him off duty. Under his greatcoat, he wore a simple waistcoat, and the buttons at the collar of his shirt were undone with his neckcloth looped loose about him, not starched to its usual standards. He wore long trousers that ended at leather shoes instead of boots.

Valjean reached to touch the brim of Javert’s cap, still pulled down low over his brilliant eyes. “What is it you’re wearing?”

“I have been undercover,” Javert offered, in lieu of an answer.

“Whatever for?”

“My current investigation requires more discretion than an officer in uniform can, by dint of the uniform itself, achieve. It was quite necessary in the gathering of intelligence that should prove useful to you and the good of your factory.”

“Your investigation involves my factory?” Valjean asked, taken aback; there was an instinctual tickle of fear at his spine that he had to stifle. “I’ve not requested this.”

“I understand, but I felt it prudent,” Javert said, and this time when he inclined his head, it was indeed a bow. His frame was rigid with barely contained energy, so much information there was which he wished to impart. 

In such a mood, Javert would want to pace the floor; Valjean smoothly backed away to the chaise to leave him room to do so. This had become almost second nature from Javert’s weekly reports and the conversations that came with them. 

“It is in regards to your foreman. I thought his comportment the other day in your factory warranted closer scrutiny, so I set out to do just that. I have completed my part of the investigation, and I came straight away to share my findings.” 

“Pray share them, then,” Valjean said, still a little dazed at the revelation; Javert nodded.

“Your foreman behaves his best in front of you, but when your back is turned, he skims and swindles. He preys on your good graces, monsieur.”

“My good graces, Inspector?”

“You think too well of people, as a rule,” Javert said. “A side effect, I assume, of your own transformation.”

“I would rather that than assume the worst of all men.”

Stern, Javert said, “A middle ground, I think, would suit you well.”

“But not you. Is one extreme better than the other?”

“Better, I do not know. More practical, yes,” he said. “For instance, you do not lock your factory doors at night with any regularity, with the belief that such a lack of security would not be taken advantage of by any of the less honest among us. Such a simple laxity allows for exploitation.”

“If a person should be in dire need of shelter—”

“That person should turn elsewhere, monsieur. Your foreman uses the unlocked doors as means by which to steal product from you—just enough at one time that it would not be missed. He has clearly done so for a long while, to store up a stock large enough to sell it off. It requires far less effort or funding than building up his own factory in a different town to produce beads with the knowledge he gleaned here.”

“You have uncovered where he stores his stash?”

“I have. And I have made note of the schedule he follows to bring his ill-gotten goods down to the docks to sell off.”

Javert’s footfalls did not strike as sharply on the wood floors in shoes as they did in his boots. The next time he passed in front of Valjean, he handed him a slip of paper.

“I have procured an invoice he provided one of his purchasers. As you can see, he seeks to undercut your prices with your own stolen product.”

“Well. This is quite a surprise. You were right to be suspicious in this instance, it seems. I must learn to vet my overseers better.”

“You must also look to root out those who might have helped him in his scheme. I will do what I can from my position, but help from yours would likely speed the process greatly.”

“I will do it,” Valjean agreed, and Javert at last seemed satisfied. “I feel I must apologize on his behalf. You’ll likely never find a ready apology on his tongue.”

“I do not mean to place the blame for his actions at your feet, monsieur. But he can serve as a lesson—he looks for any excuse to assert what little power he has managed to acquire in his life over your workers. It is unfortunate that this is not on its own illegal, for it is clearly done for petty reasons and not for order. His associates might act similarly.”

“Take heed, Inspector, or you shall create enemies of this man’s associates.”

“I create enemies wherever I go, for I cannot be bought.”

“And I think that admirable, but I do not admire how little thought is given towards the risks to your safety.”

Javert spun around mid-stride to face Valjean. “I am but one man. I am no more important than—”

“You are important to me, Javert. Your life is meant for more than dispensing justice at any cost.”

Javert fell silent, his expression blank, and his only acknowledgement of Valjean’s words another bow. It took a long moment for him to resume his pacing, and to find where he had left off in his mental report, but find it he did.

“I think most of all, it is his hypocrisy that rankles. He should judge himself as harshly as he judges his workers, for the same offense. His position should require him to hold himself up to higher standards, even, not lesser. That is taking advantage of his higher position, and it is beyond the pale,” Javert concluded, and his fervor painted a different picture out of uniform than it it.

He couldn’t fully disappear into his role—he was too tall, too striking a figure. But when he allowed his limbs to loosen and his shoulders to round, even Valjean might need a second glance to pick him from a crowd. 

The beginnings of a chill ran through Valjean’s body as he studied the other man, but the shiver had little to do with the cold.

Javert cleared his throat and Valjean’s eyes snapped up to his. 

“Are you listening, monsieur? This message is of great import.”

“I am sorry, Javert. I have caught most of what you told me, but I… I confess the sight of you in workmen’s clothing currently steals my concentration.”

Javert ducked his head in self-consciousness, an incongruous action for such a confident-seeming man. It tugged at something within Valjean, and he crossed the room again to close the distance between them. Valjean reached to tip Javert’s face up, a finger and thumb at his chin. When he did not pull away, Valjean moved his hand to cover his cheek.

Javert leaned his face into Valjean’s palm. “This is unfair,” he said, breathing long and deep. “You know how I quaver so when you touch me. I am hopeless in your hands.”

“Have you not hands yourself?” Valjean replied, his voice low.

Javert raised his hands to Valjean’s face then, his large palms cradling his bearded cheeks with an improbable softness. He let out a harsh, stuttering breath, and Valjean could feel him tremble against some unnamed urge.

Valjean slid his other hand to the back of Javert’s head, speared his fingers through his long hair, and pulled him lower so their faces were aligned. He could feel Javert’s breath hot on his mouth.

“Take what you want, Javert.”

He shook his head minutely. “I cannot.”

“Would you object if I were to do so?”

A sharp inhale and then, “I would not.”

Javert’s lips were molten under Valjean’s mouth, scorching hot and searching… and yielding, always yielding. The noises he made Valjean could nearly taste, so close was he to their source.

Valjean had witnessed his fair share of chaste kisses in his life, and some passionate ones besides, but this was the first that spoke to him personally, to the history of mankind and all its wonders.

He had, as many do, played kissing games as a child, and had felt it held no interest past the thrill of a new experience. This felt not like a game. This felt like a battle, won and lost at the same time. The carefully kindled flame in his belly had caught and spread at last, burning its way through his body. It was a wonder Javert did not come away singed.

Javert clutched at Valjean’s head, fingers buried now in his silvering curls. He gasped to allow Valjean closer still, his kiss as rich and as intoxicating as any wine Valjean had tasted. 

In their haste, they knocked the cap from Javert’s head, and it fell with a dull thud to the floorboards, startling them both to look at one another with sheepish eyes that such a silly thing could draw them apart, if only briefly. Their foreheads pressed together as they breathed in great gulps of air, and hands still gripped and clutched and stroked at skin and hair and clothing.

And if those hands worked buttons free here and there, or knots, or ribbons, did that matter?

“Come,” Valjean said, and then he maneuvered Javert across the room and pulled him to sit beside him on the chaise, for it was much easier to maintain a kiss when the disparity between their heights was not so great.

He pressed him back into the chaise, his weight on Javert’s shoulders, and the man made a curious noise at the pressure. He leaned on his right shoulder harder still, guessing at the cause, and Javert nearly whimpered, pressing his face into the cushion and angling his neck as if to bare it.

Valjean took his lead, planted a row of open-mouthed kisses up the trembling column of his throat, and Javert groaned. He was solid beneath him, but he was but a rumbling, vibrating stone, like when the earth itself quakes.   

He tasted of clean sweat and sea air, from his excursions to the docks. He tasted of heat, of longing, of truths long denied.

“You mark me again, monsieur,” Javert said, and there was an accusation in it, but no reproach.

“I would mark you a thousand times.”

“Take care I might still cover them,” he said, and brought Valjean’s face to the base of his neck, arching to make more room.  

Javert’s hands wandered from there, one wrapping to grip inside Valjean’s waistcoat near his arm and the other tugging at his cravat and collar buttons. He bent one leg at the knee and Valjean found himself then cradled between his muscular thighs, thick but lean. 

The sudden heat of them pressed together halted his kisses, as he locked eyes with Javert in surprise at the sharpness of the sensation.

If this was but a taste of what he had been missing all of those years alone, well… perhaps he could begin to understand why others sought out such connections.

Javert craned his neck up then and sucked at the hollow of Valjean’s throat, where his bonds had once rubbed the skin raw until it formed thick ridges of scar tissue, and Valjean cried out, his hips moving of their own accord in response.

Javert’s big hands had made their way Valjean’s hips as he moved them, gripping and pulling desperately to hold him tight against the answering movements from his own hips, as if nothing else in the world mattered in that moment—and maybe in that moment, nothing did.

After all, Javert was but a man like Valjean was, flesh and blood, hunger and wanting. Like this, his expressions were not so imposing, his clothing not so impenetrable, his walls not so impassable. Whatever could matter more than meeting like this, and learning of each other like lovers do?

Valjean’s chest squeezed at the poignancy of the thought—he and Javert were lovers, of a sort, and had been, perhaps, before either had realized as much. He took his mouth again, and Javert welcomed him with a hand again in his curls.

A knock sounded. 

Valjean tore his mouth away with a gasp and pushed himself up on his arms, head whipping towards his door. A few moments later, a second knock followed, confirming that he had not imagined the sound.

He turned back to Javert, who looked half-wild braced beneath him—greatcoat splayed open, waistcoat unbuttoned, hair long escaped from its ribbon; Valjean’s prick, which had mostly softened at the sound of the knock, twitched in interest.

“Damn it all,” he said, and he could not resist darting down to steal one final kiss before climbing to his feet.

Valjean quickly straightened his clothing and ran his fingers through his beard and his hair to neaten them. He tied a messy knot in his cravat, for his coordination was not yet quite what it should be to manage anything better. 

A glance at Javert showed him pulling his hair back into its ribbon in the small mirror by the hall, and then he scooped his cap up from the floor and tucked it beneath his arm. He had already fixed his clothing so it appeared unchanged by their encounter, but he was still much less put together than he was in uniform. It would have to do, regardless. He would not hide away.

Valjean approached his door and Javert met him there, bracing himself against the wall on the side of the door that would swing open, ready to surprise an ill-meaning visitor should Valjean need his aid. He nodded, and Valjean pulled open the door.

A young woman stood in the hall outside, her hand raised to knock a third time; she dropped it back to her side in surprise.

“Monsieur le Maire!” she exclaimed. “I thought perhaps you weren’t at home.”

“Ah, yes, well… My apologies, then, for taking so long to answer. Might I assume your inquiry is urgent to call on me at this hour?” 

The woman looked down, demure, and twisted her hands together in her nervousness. “That is true, monsieur. I have come to beg a favor of you, even though you have already done more for me than I can say.”

For a moment, Valjean was at a loss, but Javert cleared his throat and said, sotto voce, “Fantine, M. Madeleine.” He gave Valjean a significant look. “The worker we spoke with that day in your factory.”

“Of course, Fantine, of course! My eyes are not what they used to be in the darkness. Come in, come in, sit down.”

Fantine had started at the sound of Javert’s voice and now her eyes followed him, quickly taking in his unfamiliar clothing, as Valjean directed both of them to sit before the fireplace. “Forgive me, Inspector, I did not see you at first.”

“You were not meant to, so that is fine.” Instead of sitting, Javert decided to slink back into the shadows thrown by the fireplace, leaning an elbow on the mantelpiece. Valjean shook his head and took a seat himself. 

“It is fortuitous timing that you are here now, Fantine,” Valjean said. “We have news to share with you.”

Whatever Fantine had expected to hear from Valjean during this visit, it certainly wasn’t that. “With me, messieurs?”

“The inspector has just informed me of the results of an investigation into the foreman at my factory. I believe this foreman has long caused you distress?”

“I… Indeed, he has, but I don’t understand. I have filed no complaint. I… I was unaware his… transgressions had risen to a level to allow a police investigation. Surely you have not conducted such an investigation for my benefit, monsieur.”

“It is to the benefit of all of M. Madeleine’s workers, and himself, that his foreman not be a swindler.” Javert glanced briefly at Valjean. “Monsieur le Maire is too good-natured to understand the motivations of the type who would steal for profit, and not out of desperation.”

“It is fortunate I have you, Javert, to balance my naiveté.” 

The corner of Javert’s twitched up in a smile that he quickly quashed, but still he inclined his head in Valjean’s direction to acknowledge his comment.

“You and your fellow workers needn’t give testimony, Fantine. I have the man dead to rights on other charges,” Javert explained. “Where there is one offense, there are often several.”

“This is good news, messieurs, but it is all so very unexpected. I hardly know what to say.”

“That is understandable, Fantine, I thought it unexpected myself until the inspector explained it to me,” Valjean said. “Now, what of this favor of yours? How can I help you?”

“It is about my child, Monsieur le Maire. A problem has arisen that I am afraid is beyond my ability to resolve.”

“Remind me of your child’s name, Fantine?”

“It is Cosette.”

“Cosette. That is a beautiful name.”

“Thank you, monsieur. I would not dream to trouble you with such things if I could see another way to go instead, but I cannot. I begin to dread every piece of correspondence I receive from the innkeeper and his wife in Montfermeil. Each new letter comes with a new problem that can only be solved with money—more money than I can possibly save. I have tried to send everything I can, and they still insist on more.  

“This latest letter says that Cosette is ill and in need of a doctor, and of course doctors are expensive, and she was said to be ill so recently… Now, I know you to be a kind, charitable man—”

“Might I read the letter?” Valjean asked. 

“Of course,” Fantine said, and handed it over at once.

He unfolded it neatly and took it closer to the fire to make use of the light. Javert bent down to read over his shoulder.

“I know it is my responsibility to rectify these problems, but it has reached a point in which I am not sure they are sharing the truth with me, and quite honestly I’ve begun to fear for my daughter’s safety at their hands. I would go to collect her at once, but if I went to them without enough money to settle my debt and demanded they release her to my care, I doubt they would even allow it. Not unless I find a way to pay, and even then I am not sure. However—” 

“However…?”

Fantine gazed up at him, her eyes wide and pleading. “However, perhaps on your authority, monsieur…”

“If I were to accompany you to Montfermeil?”

“Yes, monsieur.”

“That is a clever idea, Fantine, I see the logic in it. The mayor of a successful town demanding Cosette’s release might indeed hold some sway. And perhaps if we were to add the inspector’s authority, as well…?”

Valjean turned to meet Javert’s gaze, and in it he found a curious emotion he could not name. It left him warm, though, and he wished he might be the cause of it more often.

Javert gave a short bow and said, “I would escort you both, and the child on the return trip.”

“You would? Oh, thank you, monsieur! You are a godsend!”

Fantine swept over to Javert without a thought and wrapped her arms around her neck, a difficult feat considering his stature, pulling him into a desperate, grateful hug. Javert stood stiff and unmoving until she had removed herself and repeated the action on Valjean, who was, for many reasons, an easier man to hug.

“I doubt if it is true that I am a godsend,” Javert said quietly.

“It is, Inspector, it is.” Valjean draped an arm across his shoulder and patted his chest with the flat of his other hand; Javert ducked his head, flushing red around the neck. “I am sure between the three of us, we will bring Cosette home, and then you both can put this sad affair behind you.”

“Thank you again, messieurs. I doubt if I will ever be able to pay back your kindness.”

“Do not worry about such things, Fantine. What matters most is your daughter’s safety and good health. We shall set off for Montfermeil very soon. You will need time away from the factory, of course, and the inspector has some loose ends to tie in his investigation,” Valjean said. “Will you need an escort back to your home at this hour?”

“Oh, no, don’t trouble yourself, monsieur. I will be all right on my own.”

“If you are sure.”

Javert cleared his throat. “I should be leaving shortly myself, Monsieur le Maire. I would see to it that Fantine reaches her home safely.”

Valjean’s chest tightened; he found Javert’s hand and clasped it, giving his shoulder a grateful squeeze. “Thank you, Inspector. I shall see you bright and early in the morning for your weekly report?”

“Yes, monsieur.”

“Very good.” After a long moment, Valjean shook himself, dropping his hands back to his sides. He moved to show Javert and Fantine to the door. “I hope you rest well knowing you have done good this day, Inspector, Fantine,” Valjean said.

Javert hesitated with one hand on the doorknob. He turned to Valjean, and it seemed for a moment as if he would say something, but instead he bowed his head.

Fantine looked between the two men, her mouth curved with a curious kindness. Valjean was sure he could see the moment when the thought occurred to her that there might indeed be some truth to the rumors swirling around the town. 

She was familiar with rumors, of course and—considering these rumors were of the type that threatened her own reputation—rather than finding the idea off-putting, it had earned Valjean and Javert some measure of her sympathy.

The rush of the hunt pounded fresh in Javert’s veins as he mounted the wooden stairs, the muscles in his body tense with the effort to contain his excitement at the thought of his goal of catching his quarry unawares coming to fruition. 

Javert carried with him an unwieldy sheaf of paperwork, having purposely neglected to neaten it with as much care as he would normally use. He knocked on the office door with his night stick, though he knew such a movement would further destabilize the papers in his hands. He maneuvered the doorknob to turn at the answering beckon and pushed the door open.

Valjean, in his predicted eagerness to offer help, rushed over to Javert and knocked into him just enough to facilitate a spill of papers across the floor. They both knelt to gather them, dropping below the line of sight of the windows, and Javert heard the door click shut behind him with a thrill. 

He abandoned his belongings on the floor and darted to seize a preoccupied Valjean by the face and kiss his surprise-parted lips. He swallowed down his astonished sigh, his own chest rumbling at the feeling of Valjean’s hand at his sideburn and the other at his shoulder, steadying them both.

The kiss petered off slowly, with fading nuzzles and brushing of mouths and then the touches faded as well, as they both pulled away from each other and opened their eyes.

By unspoken agreement, they gathered up the mess again quickly before anyone in the factory below could think they had remained out of sight for too long. Before they stood, Valjean’s tongue came out to moisten his lips and Javert nearly dropped the papers a second time to steal another kiss, but he mastered the impulse with great aplomb.

They rose to their feet, and Javert took the two messy piles to Valjean’s desk and set about putting them back in order.

“Forgive me for the untidiness, Monsieur le Maire. I was impatient for our meeting to begin.”

Valjean fiddled with his cravat as he sat again behind the desk, a nervous habit—it had not been disturbed by their kiss. He cleared his throat and said, “You are rarely so graceless, Inspector. If I looked at this event from a distance, I would guess it an intentional mishap.” 

“I apologize for the ruse, monsieur. I only thought we had left some business unfinished last night.”

Valjean’s skin went pink beneath his beard, his expression still a bit kiss-dazed. “Indeed, we did.”

A beat passed in silence while the two men stared at each other; Javert shook himself from the moment first.

“My weekly report, Monsieur le Maire, then?” he said, with a short bow.

“Of course. Please, go ahead.”

“I also brought along more information regarding my recent investigation, as you can see.” He tapped his fingers against the paperwork. “I would thank you to offer any insights you can share after you’ve read it.”

“Excellent. I’ll be glad to look it over once you’ve given your report,” Valjean said, and arranged himself behind his desk in a better approximation of how he usually sat to listen to Javert’s reports. 

Satisfied that he had not distracted Valjean to the detriment of their business, Javert began, “Now, as you know, I did not take part in my usual patrols this past week…”

When Fantine met Valjean and Javert on the afternoon they were meant to set off for Montfermeil, she was in quite a state. In her anticipation, she had worked herself up with worry—having spent so long away from her daughter, she was not sure she was adequately prepared to see her again. 

She fretted especially that she had no new clothing to offer Cosette should her current belongings be too meager to see her through their journey. Valjean, of course, did not see this as a problem at all.

“Whatever she shall need, I will pay.”

Fantine’s brow furrowed. “I couldn’t possibly free myself from one set of debts only to saddle myself with another immediately after, even if you, monsieur, are a far less objectionable lender than the others.”

“Do not consider it a debt to be repaid, Fantine. Consider it a wrong made right. Perhaps many wrongs.”

“But, monsieur—”

“I have no children of my own to dote on, and I will not have them now, at my age. Please, allow me this,” Valjean said.

Still, Fantine hesitated. 

Javert coughed softly to draw her attention and said, “You will have a difficult time dissuading him, Fantine, for once he has decided he will help a person, he must follow through with it. The consequences matter little.”

“You have experienced this before, Inspector?”

Javert inclined his head in confirmation. He had, of course—firsthand and otherwise. He and Valjean would never have met if it were not true.

“It is easier to indulge him than it is to argue.”

“Unless of course you find joy in arguing,” Valjean interjected, “as the inspector seems to do.” Javert’s lips twitched but he marshaled the movement before it became a smile.

Fantine at last seemed mollified. “If that is the case, I would thank you for your generosity, now and forevermore. You are our savior, monsieur.”

“I am not… However, should He wish to work through me, I am but a willing tool to be wielded as necessity demands.” He moved to usher both Fantine and Javert into the carriage. “Now, let us away, for the sooner we start our journey, the sooner we will end it.”

Hours passed and the particular exhaustion that comes with long stretches of travel began to settle into the trio’s bones. They had stopped to eat and switch out the horses so they could continue on their way, for the roads were in good repair for the season and none of them wished to prolong the journey.

Fantine was the first to fall victim to her weariness—her anxiety over her daughter sapping her strength much quicker than the other two. 

Valjean had held on as long as he could, but he had at last finally drifted off, his body slumping gently into the wall of the carriage, lulled with the rumbling of the rolling wheels.

Javert still had a bit of energy left in him, accustomed as he was to late night patrols. He was perfectly content to be the only occupant of the carriage awake. The peace of solitude was welcome, as was the peace of being afforded additional time than he would necessarily have on a regular basis to examine his seat-mate in repose.

Valjean may not think himself a savior, but he looked the part—and played it well. There was a beauty in Valjean that Javert had rarely known and more rarely appreciated. Though he had in fact noticed it even all those years ago—a rough and wild beauty, like a storm, a force of nature, that might sweep you away if you came too close. 

It lay more dormant now under the trappings of a businessman turned mayor, but still Javert saw it. He still felt it in his chest in moments like this one—the beauty of the storm.

When the time finally came for Javert to rest his weary head, it was that feeling that stayed with him, that image he kept in his mind’s eye as sleep took him—Valjean, asleep and tranquil, the moonlight shining through the window causing his greying hair to glow white.

The early morning hours arrived, and with them the sun finally started to rise above the horizon and bathe the interior of the carriage in a warm light. 

The three occupants of the carriage woke in turn. Valjean was first—Javert only knew this because he found the man’s eyes on him when he awoke, and the fondness in them made him glad that Fantine had not yet woken to catch him at his heartfelt perusal. 

When at last she did awake, it became clear Fantine’s anxiety had not been curtailed by resting. If anything, it had become worse upon waking.

In the final few hours of their trek, Fantine’s nerves made her talkative where neither man would’ve been if they had been by themselves in the carriage. She talked about all manner of things, simply to fill the uneasy quiet, and was currently expounding upon the man who was Cosette’s father, who had abandoned them and his duty to support them and thus created their current predicament.

“And to think, Félix was not even my soulmate! But I was so taken with him, I believed it would not matter. For a long while after he left us, I thought perhaps if we had been soulmates, he would not have dared to do such a thing, but the more time that passes, the less I believe it. Perhaps it was too fanciful of me to even entertain the thought. Perhaps he would have left us even so.”

“There is no way to know what might have been, Fantine, that is quite right,” Valjean said. “We build soulmates up to be like something out of a children’s storybook, but it is an unfortunate fact of life that being with one’s soulmate does not assure happiness, even if we would like to believe it was guaranteed. Soulmates are but kindred souls. Affection and respect and loyalty matter regardless of notions of destiny, and if those are missing, I fear destiny could possibly be quite bleak.”

“Well said, M. Madeleine,” Fantine said, and then she put her hand to her forehead. “Oh, what has gotten into me today? I have asked the mayor and his chief of police to go out of their way to help me—and somehow I am fortunate enough that you have agreed to do so! I should not waste your time talking of silly things like soulmates.”

“Soulmates are by no means silly,” Valjean said. “It’s only natural to wonder what life could be after you’ve met yours. I believe meeting your match is still a blessing, even if it is not a guarantee of happiness.”

Javert stared down at his hands clasped in his lap. Valjean thought him a blessing? Indeed, he had also agreed with Fantine that he was a godsend… Javert was unaccustomed to such assertions; he resisted the temptation to squirm in his seat like a schoolboy under the weight of the implications.

“It is a blessing if you were to meet yours,” said Fantine, “but I’ve gone so long without, it’s not as if I’m likely to ever meet mine now.”

“Nonsense, Fantine! There is plenty of time, is there not?” Valjean said, looking to Javert to bolster his assurance.

“That is true. I have a good number of years on you and I had never even thought much of soulmates before I…” 

Javert trailed off, trapped suddenly by the fact that he could not commiserate without revealing more than he’d care to reveal. His reputation in the town was such that he would only confirm certain rumors if he implied how recently he had met his soulmate, for he associated with no one outside of work besides Valjean, and of course Valjean’s reputation was similar.

He cleared his throat and shrugged a shoulder. “Well. As you can imagine, there is no way of predicting when the meeting might come to pass, so to rule it out entirely is hasty.” 

“I agree, Inspector. One mustn’t discount the possibility simply because it happens not in our youth.”

Javert studiously avoided glancing over to see Valjean’s expression at his statement, but Javert’s impassive face was less effective a mask than he hoped it would be. 

Fantine eyed the two of them, fitted tightly together on one side of the carriage, perhaps a bit more tightly than the space necessitated. In fact, their legs were pressed together from knee to ankle and neither had seen fit to move away despite having room to do so—and to do it now would only draw attention. 

“My apologies, messieurs,” Fantine said softly. “I believe I begin to understand.”

The negotiation with the Thénardier couple was not going well. It wasn’t going poorly either, per se, but it was not going well, or smoothly, and certainly not simply. The innkeeper and his wife talked in circles, poking around for excuses to charge for every tiny expense, often many times over. Their hope must’ve been to confuse and overwhelm into accidental submission. 

Javert had quickly lost his patience with the pair once the conversation started, for they were just the sort of people who could be counted on to cause all manner of trouble, and he felt it was only a matter of time before they crossed a line into criminality—if they hadn’t already. Surely, this particular case danced close to extortion, or something like it. Even Valjean had begun to bristle under the transparent machinations of their demands.

When at length the couple showed their final hand, a shocked silence followed—for it had to be their closing gambit if it was to be so bold and crude as this. Thank God Cosette had clung to Fantine as soon as she recognized her mother, and Fantine had whisked her to the far side of the inn, so that she need not hear it.

“This is a travesty, a wicked act! To take such advantage of our Christian kindness… We have worked so hard to accommodate our dear Cosette, even though she eats like a horse and is often sick as a dog and is so rotten towards our other children, and yet you try to get away with paying us a pittance for our struggles. 

“Oh, woe—! We thought perhaps a mayor’s mistress and his bastard child warranted a more careful consideration of fees! But alas, you are as much a skinflint as any miser, even to pay fairly for the sins of his own loins.”

“Watch your tongue, monsieur,” Javert hissed, moving to put himself between a stunned Valjean and the vile couple. “There are children about, as you say. Such insinuations are not fit for their ears.”

Thénardier ignored Javert despite the scant distance between them and spoke directly to Valjean. “Your attack dog would do well to learn to heel, Monsieur le Maire. Perhaps you should teach him.” 

It was only the strength of Valjean’s hand pushing insistently against Javert’s chest that held him back from M. Thénardier after his remark. 

“You will have the additional money you demand,” Valjean said, in a tone that brooked no argument, as he retrieved his hand to pull the bills from his wallet, “and you will be relieved of your undue burden—may you soon forget your suffering. Now, where shall we find Cosette’s belongings, which have already been duly paid for?”

The Thénardiers exchanged a look and were about to launch into another tall tale when Valjean raised his hand to halt them. “Never mind that, then. It seems you have come out more than even, and therefore cannot have any complaints as to the total we have agreed upon.” 

He held out the money, folded between his fingers. After a pregnant pause, Mme. Thénardier snatched the bills from Valjean and tucked them in her bodice against her bosom. She gave an ugly approximation of a curtsy and ushered her husband from the room, whispering harshly in his ear as they went.

“Come, let us leave this cursed place,” Valjean said quietly to Javert as he led him over to gather Fantine and Cosette. “I hope to put some distance between us and those contemptible people before we stop to assess what we shall need for the return journey. Who knows how long we will have before they discover more ‘forgotten’ hardships that must be paid for…”

Once the next stop had been safely reached, all four members of their party began to breathe a little easier. Even little Cosette did not look back over her shoulder at the slightest noise quite so often—a welcome change to witness so quickly.

Valjean seemed relieved to be away from the Thénardiers almost to the point of giddiness. He had been more clearly embarrassed by their accusation that he had sired Cosette than by any that had been leveled against Javert and himself back in Montreuil-sur-Mer, but now that they were no longer in the immediate vicinity of the inn, his spirits had lifted immensely.

He sent Fantine and Cosette into a shop with a hefty sum to buy new clothing for the little girl and brooked no argument about it, either, for the veritable rags the Thénardiers had relegated Cosette to wear were not even fit for a galley slave. If he had anything to say about it—and he did—Cosette would have a replacement for the warm coat Fantine had already paid for and a fine pair of shoes, as well.

Javert followed Valjean into another shop for want of anything better to occupy himself with while they waited. He watched the other man browse through the wares on offer, taking in the private smile upon his face and the unusual lightness in his step, the way he paused at certain items to inspect them without quite so much solemnity underlying his actions. He seemed, at least for a time, like a man who had found his freedom all over again.

Javert bent down, pretending to look over an item Valjean was examining.

“You are pleased with yourself,” he said, in a low voice.

“Are you not pleased?”

He let out a noncommittal sound. “You allowed those snakes to bilk you out of double what they claimed was owed in their letter.”

“Then you should arrest me at once for highway robbery, Inspector, for I brought with us four times as much.”

Javert found himself unable to keep a small smile from curving his own lips at that bit of information. “Well, that certainly explains your continued largess. You are determined to spend the rest regardless?”

“It seems a shame not to, as I had already earmarked it as such.” Valjean put down the item and moved on to the next. “I have more money than I can ever hope to use in this life. I will spend it however I see fit.” 

Valjean’s browsing eventually led them to a small section of children’s play things. 

“Oh! That is the one,” he said, plucking a doll down from an upper shelf. “A better doll I have never seen.”

“It does appear well-constructed,” Javert said, with a small frown. At Valjean’s look, he added, “I know naught of such things as dolls.”

“Take my word for it, then. This is worth every sou of its price tag—it’s perfect.”

“You will succeed at spoiling the child before we’ve even set off for home.”

“A girl should have a proper coat, a proper pair of shoes, and a proper doll,” Valjean said. “That’s hardly spoiling. Even my sister had a doll when she was young.”

Purchase secured, they met Fantine and Cosette again in the street, and Valjean knelt down and presented Cosette with her gift.

“For me?” she asked, shyly, taking the doll into her arms with the reverence of a child denied possessions of her own for far too long.

“For you, Cosette.”

“Thank you, monsieur,” Cosette said with a small curtsy as automatic as any bow of Javert’s, and then she glanced back up at Fantine over the top of her doll’s head, looking to her for permission.

“You may hug him if you like, Cosette. If the monsieur is agreeable.”

“I am always agreeable to a hug.”

Cosette darted forward to wrap one arm around Valjean’s neck, still holding tight to her new doll in the other. Valjean returned the hug; one of his hands was big enough to span most of the width of her tiny back. The serene expression on his face was enough to make Javert avert his eyes lest he embarrass himself out there on the street.

“Take care with her, Cosette, and she will be with you ’til you are grown. Perhaps you will even give her to your own daughter to care for one day.”

Cosette scampered off then to hide amongst her mother’s skirts, peeking out at Valjean with a blush staining her skinny cheeks.

Javert stepped closer to offer Valjean his hand to help him up from his knees. 

“Thank you, Javert,” he said when he was on his feet again, squeezing his hand a bit as he let go. Javert gave a small bow.

“Shall we secure lodgings for the night, then, and fill our stomachs?” Valjean asked the others. “I believe we are all too weary to journey on today.”

“I think that is prudent, M. Madeleine,” Javert said. “Fantine?”

“I agree, messieurs. May we all rest easier than last night.”

It just so happened that the inn in this small town was quite modest itself and as a consequence had but a lone room free, with only a pair of beds to offer inside it. Valjean turned towards the group with a furrow in his brow and his mouth already parted to speak, but Javert spoke first.

“It does not matter,” he said. “I will keep watch to assure there are no disturbances in the night.”

“Nonsense. It has been a very long couple of days for us all, Inspector, yourself included. Fantine and Cosette can share one bed, and we shall take the other. That arrangement should suit us all for a single night without much trouble.”

“As long as none of us is apt to snore.”

“Was that directed at me, monsieur?” Valjean said, a mischievous quirk to his mouth, the jovial atmosphere at having succeeded in their mission returning at once.

Javert held up his hands in mock innocence. “Let the record show I made no such assertion—it speaks to consciousness of guilt on your part, Monsieur le Maire.”

Valjean clapped Javert on the back a few times and allowed his hand to linger there between his shoulder blades while the four of them tramped upstairs to deposit their belongings in their room so they could find a good dinner to warm their bellies for the night. Javert was thankful of the narrowness of the stairwell, for he could lean close to Valjean without pretense given their positions. An odd feeling of freedom came from that, combined with being away from Montreuil-sur-Mer, where their every public step was judged.

Dinner was a quiet affair as their tiredness began to catch up with them. The chatter from the surrounding tables was enough to discourage much discussion while they ate beyond Fantine coaxing Cosette into believing that all of the food in her dish was truly hers to eat, and hers alone. 

Javert was very familiar with hunger. He knew what the gnawing pain could do to one’s body, to one’s mind, and observing the girl adapt to her new situation was a curious sight to behold. Even he could admit it was gratifying to see the small girl eat her fill for what might have been the first time in years, if ever. 

A thought occurred to him then and he glanced across the table at Valjean. Sure enough, he was also studying the girl as she ate.

Had Valjean’s nieces and nephews hungered like this? Of course they must have. Of course a man like Valjean would be driven to do whatever he could to relieve such suffering—had he ever had the chance to succeed like they had today? Or was his most desperate effort thwarted and the next nineteen years of his life forfeit without ever having witnessed a moment as fulfilling as this one?

Javert woke slowly at first. He was aware of the now-familiar warmth of Valjean at his back, but with space enough to lie beside each other fully, they were surely not asleep upon Valjean’s narrow chaise. When his eyes finally adjusted to the morning light, he saw Fantine standing over him, eyes wide, and he recoiled in surprise. 

“I am sorry, Inspector,” she said. “Once you started to wake, I did not want to move and cause another creak to wake you further, but, alas, it was too late.”

“It is no matter,” he said, rubbing a hand over his face. He moved Valjean’s arm from where it had draped around his waist in his sleep so he could drag himself to sit on the edge of the bed.

He saw Fantine was still watching him curiously, and he froze, a realization dawning.

In his grogginess, he had moved Valjean so casually, with no hint of unease at finding the other man’s arm around him. It must have seemed a mundane action, even one he had perhaps done countless times before. And who knows what else Fantine had witnessed while they slept…

He raised a hand to the back of his neck, unsure whether the phantom sensation of lips against his skin had been inspired by a recent event, or a kiss pressed there in weeks past.

Javert did not feel overly confident in relying upon a person’s sense of honor and obligation to keep his secrets, but he had little choice in the matter—whatever Fantine had managed to piece together about his relationship with Valjean was not something which could be taken back.

Her image of him had already taken a different form than most who knew of him because of his participation in this journey, and now it had been forever altered even further by seeing the upright and unbending police inspector in little more than what had amounted to his nightclothes for the night, with his long hair loose about his shoulders. 

Javert thought he ought to try his hand at making conversation, even if that had never been a strong suit of his. Better for Fantine to think of him as human as was possible at this point.

“How is your daughter this morning?”

“She is well, monsieur. She has awakened, eaten, and dressed, all before returning to bed again for a nap.”

“One mustn’t pass up a comfortable bed when one has access.”

“It is fortunate M. Madeleine convinced you of that last night. I hope you rested well.”

“As well as ever.”

Javert pulled on his boots from where he had tucked them under the edge of the bed before he pushed himself to his feet. He retrieved his waistcoat from where he had left it folded and shrugged it on, but left it unfastened as he carefully searched the sheets for his missing hair ribbon. He found it tucked beneath the pillow, and would not allow himself to try to remember if it had been himself or Valjean who had undone it in the night.

He ducked down a bit in front of the mirror to attempt to set his hair to rights, but it was obviously hung with someone of a smaller stature in mind to use comfortably.

“Allow me, monsieur.” Fantine held a hand out for his ribbon.   

Javert stared down at her hand in disbelief. “I have not required anyone to tie my hair for me since my mother.”

“I have not had reason to tie another’s hair since I last cared for Cosette. I must get back into practice.”

At that, Javert relented and allowed her to take the ribbon. She combed her fingers through his hair as she gathered it together, working through a few tangles that kept it from lying smooth.

“At the factory, you said your mother was a woman like me.”

Javert chuckled darkly. “Not very much like you, madame. You are, as unlikely as it sounds, far higher born.”

“That cannot be true.”

“You did not know my mother.”

“There. I did a passable job, I think.”

He glanced again in the mirror. “Duly serviceable, I’d say.” 

Fantine worried her lip with her teeth. “Do not take this as a slight, monsieur, for I do not mean it so, but it strikes me odd a man like you would wear his hair at such a length.”

Javert shrugged and looked away. “I could not wear it long when I was young, though I tried. There was too much a fear of lice and other pests in such close quarters. I find comfort that I possess such an easy reminder that I am not still where I come from,” he said. “Fashions change, of course, but I care little for fashions. My reasons are reason enough, I think.”

“Of course. I did not mean to—”

“It is fine. I would rather not speak of such things in detail, that is all.”

Fantine nodded, her eyes on her feet. Javert cleared his throat.

“Now, if we hope to make good time to Montreuil-sur-Mer, we must set off as soon as we are able.” Javert reached across the bed where Valjean still slumbered, taking hold of his bicep and giving it a gentle shake. “Monsieur, you must awake.”

Valjean grumbled and curled himself into the space Javert had occupied in the night, rolling out from beneath his hand.

“I did not know mayors were such layabouts,” teased a cautious Fantine.

“Likely only this one,” Javert said, and shook him again, firmer now. “Madeleine.”

Valjean’s body tensed immediately as he rose to awareness; he felt the sheet at his side and glanced around, brow furrowed. “Javert?”

A fleeting brush of fingers to his elbow drew his attention behind him towards Javert and the tension in his body eased.

“You are the last to prepare yourself for our journey, Monsieur le Maire,” Javert said, his voice a shade more indulgent that he was wont. “You slept like a stone.”

“Mmm, that is not my custom,” he said, rubbing at his bleary eyes. “You could have woken me sooner.”

“I assure you, monsieur, I could not,” Javert said, unable to fully mask the amusement in his tone. 

Fantine smothered her own laughter in her hand and moved to gently wake Cosette again and help her gather her things; she took her from the room to offer Valjean a bit of privacy as he emerged from bed.

Silent, Javert held up Valjean’s waistcoat so the other man could slip his arms into it, and then he smoothed it down his shoulders while Valjean did up the buttons. The coat was next, and he did the same with that, and also turned him around and tugged at the collar to straighten it when Valjean had finished. He only barely resisted the impulse to run his fingers through Valjean’s sleep-mussed hair.

“You are in need of a mirror, monsieur," Javert said, gesturing across the room.

“Better?” Valjean said, once he had finished.

Javert gave a shallow bow in response. What he wanted, though, was to bend down and take his mouth, and more besides, but as they were not alone here, it wasn’t prudent. Such things would have to wait until they were safely ensconced in the privacy of Valjean’s rooms again, whenever that may be.

Javert shook himself. It would not do to think of such things with a long carriage ride ahead of them. There would be time enough later, after they were all settled back at home.

Cosette slept again in the carriage, cradled in her mother’s lap. The safety and security she must have felt now was immense, and she likely had much fitful sleeping to make up for.

“I am just relieved to see the back of them,” Fantine said quietly, of the Thénardiers. On the road home, it was easier to discuss their ordeal.

“I am sorry M. Thénardier would cast such aspersions on your character, Fantine, to imply that you and I were scandalously involved.”

“I am sorry he would cast such aspersions on your character, monsieur. Surely no child of yours would ever be left wanting for anything, no matter the circumstances of their birth.”

Valjean’s face grew serious. “No. Not if it were within my power to provide for them.”

No child of his. No child entrusted to him, either. Not even if it meant losing his freedom. As a moral code, it was a strong one—the sacrifice of a man not fated to ever be a natural father, but a father by love alone.

Javert felt the ache of new growth at the center of his wooden heart, expanding outward in search of sunlight. The ache was intense, to be sure, but it no longer felt so foreign after spending so much time with Valjean since he had arrived at Montreuil-sur-Mer.

Javert had found himself in need of a new North Star as of late, what with his faith in the path he walked so shaken. As remarkable a thought it was considering everything that had come before, in Valjean, he might have found one.

There had been much business to catch up on upon the return from Montfermeil, and so everyone went about their separate responsibilities for a time. As Fantine and Cosette settled into life together in Montreuil-sur-Mer, Valjean became caught up in his search for a properly vetted foreman to replace the one he had lost, in addition to his duties as mayor; Javert’s attention was called towards the case against said foreman. 

The hustle and bustle kept them apart for quite a while—even Javert’s weekly report did not stray from the topic at hand as it was wont. Every time Valjean caught sight of Javert in passing, he appeared more harried than the last. He hoped the strain was due only to overwork, but even that held little reassurance. Javert would work himself to the breaking point if duty demanded it. 

On the very evening Valjean had resolved to pay a visit to Javert to insist he not neglect himself too terribly, the man himself appeared on his doorstep.

“Monsieur le Maire,” Javert said, giving a sharp bow as Valjean opened his door. 

He strode past Valjean into his rooms and immediately began to pace, the whirlwind of his sudden presence wrapping itself around Valjean and tugging at the place their souls were linked.

“I’ve missed you,” he said, staring after him as he passed him by again.

Javert’s stride faltered for a moment and he stopped to say, “And I, you, monsieur,” with a short bow before he continued wearing a path into the floorboards.

“Has something happened?”

“Nothing out of the ordinary, no. Nothing to cause concern.”

Valjean looked Javert up and down, taking note of the civilian clothing he wore, the slight unsteadiness to his gait, the subtle way he tugged at his whiskers while he paced, as if to mask the action. His hair, too, was disheveled, only half tied back in its ribbon, as if he had been pulling at that as well. “That is very difficult to believe. I’ve not seen you in such a state. You haven’t been drinking, have you?”

Javert shook his head. “I have been thinking, which is almost as dangerous.”

“What thoughts could trouble you so?”

“I would not say I am troubled, monsieur. At a loss, perhaps. Overwhelmed, certainly,” he said. “Ever since we returned from our journey to rescue the girl, I have not been myself. The distraction has even begun to hinder my work, which cannot stand. It has reached a point where I can ignore the source of my distraction no longer.”

Valjean’s stomach sank as he pieced together through context what Javert had not yet voiced. “Is it me, then, Javert? Am I the cause of your distress?”

“Yes and no,” he said, snapping almost to attention in front of Valjean. “It was hardly your intent. All you have done is what you always do—act with mercy, whether deserved or undeserved. What you’ve done for the girl… it is remarkable. You hold no obligation towards her, no responsibility, and yet you chose to give so freely.”

“I did what any person would do if they had the means to do it.”

“No. My convict father would not have returned to claim me if he had been released, had he been able to track me down. Even his obligation by blood would not have brought him to it.

“But you—you’ve done more than that for this girl. You’ve done more for many people. You even tried to provide for your sister’s children at the expense of your own freedom.”

Valjean was taken aback. “I thought only the fact that a crime was committed mattered to you, Javert, not the reason for it.”

“It does, but it doesn’t. The contradiction challenges me daily,” he said, and took a deep, heavy breath that caught a little on the exhale. “You are a better man than most men I have ever known. Nearly two decades of your life forfeit and yet you still give as if you are a bottomless well of generosity. 

“Even if I am willing to see you as naught but an exception, I must forever live with the knowledge that an exception is possible. Where there is one, there is no reason there can’t be more, even if personally I doubt there are many who could outdo you at the milk of human kindness.”

“I am not special, Javert. Any man faced with the same decision to turn from sin could make the same choice.”

“Not any man. Certainly not most men.” Javert clenched his jaw, and after a moment continued to speak as if it pained him, “I am not convinced I could make the choice with such conviction. I fear I would break, rather than bend. I am not malleable, Valjean—I shatter.”

“No,” Valjean said, laying his palm against Javert’s tense jaw. “No, you need not shatter. It only takes a light and steady hand to guide you, not a harsh or a forceful one.”

Javert met Valjean’s gaze, his eyes wide and pleading, pushing closer into Valjean’s touch. “Your hand. You are the only one. No one else could change me as you have.”

“I doubt if that’s true.”

“I do not lie. I know myself. I…” He clutched at the lapels of Valjean’s waistcoat, feeling the fabric between his fingers. “Will you let me see your mark? I struggle to believe that a saint such as you could be my match.”

Valjean’s eyebrows shot up. “Am I a saint, now? When you last called me that, it was steeped in sarcasm.”

“I have been blind, monsieur,” he said, his voice desperate, devastated. 

“This is absurd,” Valjean balked. “Of course I am your match, Javert. You know better than I when your mark appeared. You are sure you have not had too much to drink at dinner?”

Javert shook his head, vehement. “I have not. Instead, I have been intoxicated by thoughts of you. Thoughts of us. Thoughts of…”

He looked around furtively for a moment and, despite the empty room, dropped his voice low to say, “I would have lain with you that night, you know, had Fantine not set us on our mission.”

Valjean felt his blood run hot. Indeed, to him that night had seemed to move in that direction, but to have confirmation from Javert, well… 

Javert must have been able to read the shift in Valjean from his face. “I would lay with you tonight,” he said, keen, “if such a thing appeals to you.”

“Such a thing does appeal to me, Javert. If I must tell you every day that I return your desires, I will do it.”

A burst of laughter escaped Javert, half in disbelief. He took a restless step closer, and then away again, ceasing all contact. “Now? Would you… Could we…?”

Valjean couldn’t help but smile, Javert’s eagerness endearing in a way he hardly thought to associate with the man. “I see no reason to delay it further, if it is something we both want.”

Another laugh and Javert took his face in his hands and covered his lips in a dizzying kiss. Valjean clutched at Javert in return, a hand buried in his half-loose hair and the other tight at the base of his spine, pulling him against him. 

Javert moaned into Valjean’s mouth as he pressed into his belly, his excitement already beginning to make its presence known. Valjean rocked back against him and Javert broke the kiss, leaning his forehead against Valjean’s, breathing deeply through his nose to calm himself.

Javert’s fingers moved in patterns on Valjean’s scalp beneath his hair, and if he felt any scars there, he made no comment on them. “Valjean, I… My God, how I’ve wanted you. I’ve thought of how a night like this might go between us for so long, I… The last thing I want is to spill in my trousers before we’ve even begun.”

“Do not worry. If that is truly a risk,” Valjean said, pulling back just a bit, “then I am quite flattered by it.”

Taking Valjean’s hand from his waist, Javert said, “It is a risk,” and then he brought the hand to his mouth, pressing a kiss to his palm before backing away completely. “I must try to pace myself.”

“Perhaps then we should move to my bedroom, so that we may take our time with each other… and avoid any undue interruptions?”

Valjean held his hand out, palm up, in the empty space between them. Javert eyed it almost in disbelief and, with a trembling hesitance, he clasped it, and allowed Valjean to lead him to his room and close the door behind them.

“Since you have thought of this for so long, Javert… would you like to undress me?”

Javert’s tongue came out to wet his lips, and his gaze dropped to Valjean’s cravat. “I… I do not trust the steadiness of my hands at this moment.” He lifted his eyes again and said, hopeful, “If I may watch you instead…?”

Valjean was glad his own fingers did not tremble in an especially noticeable way when he raised them to his throat and began to work the knot free. He unwound the fabric from around his neck, undid the buttons on his shirt, and moved down smoothly for the buttons on his waistcoat next. He lowered the waistcoat from his shoulders and handed it to Javert, who had reached out an unsteady hand for it, and then Valjean lowered his braces, too.

Javert had not looked away during any of this, had followed the movement of Valjean’s hands with rapt attention throughout with his lips slightly parted, his breathing quicker than usual, but not distressed.

His fingers twisted in the fabric of Valjean’s waistcoat as Valjean moved to tug his shirt from his trousers and over his head; he made a sound that could have been a lament had he been grieving. As it was, it lanced through Valjean all the same. He took a deep breath before he met Javert’s eye again. 

Javert had not seen him bare to the waist since Toulon, and Valjean was more acutely aware of the comparison than he had ever been before. By himself, it had mattered not at all… but he was no longer by himself.

He had lost some of the definition that came from being denied proper food and water—his skin was not stretched as tight across the muscle, his shape overall much softer with nourishment and with age, but the power in him was still little disguised without the trappings of a gentleman to shield him from view.

Valjean had never thought much of his own physique save for disliking the ugly scars that marred his skin. Javert, though… There was no world where one could describe the expression on his face as one looking upon something that held any ugliness at all.

How had Valjean not recognized the secret admiration in his gaze? His expression now was not so different from what it had been in their days in Toulon. Javert’s interest in him had always come from a place of fascination, first a grudging awe and then a reluctant respect. 

Respect outside of Javert’s inherent respect of those above him had not come until they knew who they were to each other, but there had been a seed of it buried within him, even if he had not yet been fertile ground for it to grow.

“My mark,” Valjean said, his voice rough.

Javert’s eyes snapped to his. “Hmm?”

“My mark, Javert. You wished to see it.”

“Right.” He nodded, and swallowed visibly. “Of course.”

When Javert made no move to come round behind him, Valjean began to turn to face the other way instead. He could tell when the mark came into view by Javert’s quiet gasp. He heard the sound of fabric falling as Javert tossed aside Valjean’s waistcoat and came to a stop standing at Valjean’s back. 

Javert took hold of Valjean’s waist, a tentative touch, and kissed him just below where his hair curled at the nape of his neck. He stayed like that for a long moment before he raised one of his hands to place it upon the mark in the middle of Valjean’s back; he bent to press his forehead to Valjean’s shoulder.

“Valjean,” he said, his voice choked with emotion.

“Are you all right?”

“All these years later and my hand is still a perfect match. I have never fit anywhere with ease, but here I fit.”

“That is because you belong here, Javert. You belong with me.”

Valjean felt Javert’s exhalation flow across his skin. “It is all so new, I can hardly hold it in my mind when we are parted. My place has always been conditional, my fall inevitable if I stray from my duty. I have never known another way until you.”

Valjean turned to face Javert then, and pulled him into a kiss. Javert met it with a sound that was nearly a sob, parting his lips to encourage Valjean to deepen the kiss. He clutched at Valjean’s bare back, crushing him to his chest, and there was no hesitation at all as his hands traced over the deep scars that crisscrossed the expanse of skin.

The warmth of Javert’s body against his stole most thoughts from Valjean’s mind, save one—he wanted to feel the other man’s skin against his own. No more of this buttoned to the chin nonsense, no. If he couldn’t explore Javert the way Javert was exploring him and soon, he feared he might lose himself.

He reached for the buttons on Javert’s coat as the kiss continued and now his fingers began to tremble some. It did not matter that he had helped Javert undress to tend to his wounds before, or nearly mindlessly the night they first kissed. This felt far more momentous. 

The word ‘consummation’ flashed in Valjean’s mind, and he met the thought with a feeling of relief, of wonder. Such was a concept he had never hoped to experience—the sealing of his fate to another. Lately, he had begun to believe that he and Javert were entwined thusly no matter their marks. The marks simply gave it a name.

At long last, Javert broke the kiss, sucking in air as if he’d just caught up to Valjean at the end of a long chase—and perhaps he had. Valjean used the opportunity to make quick work of the remaining buttons on his coat and push it off his shoulders; he tossed it away to land on Valjean’s discarded waistcoat, and then began to remove Javert’s waistcoat as well.

Javert’s focus fell to Valjean’s bare chest, and it was quite surreal for Valjean to feel someone’s gaze hot upon his brand without a hint of judgement… but why would there be? Javert knew what it was and why it was there. He expected it—even, perhaps, accepted its presence as instrumental in the creation of the man who stood before him, traumas and triumphs inextricably intertwined.

“I remember touching you when you left,” Javert said. “I have thought on it often in the ensuing years. I took perhaps an unhealthy satisfaction from witnessing your great feats of human strength and endurance—I had to let myself touch you before your were lost to me forever. Just the one time. I had to feel that strength beneath my fingers.”

“Plenty of guards manhandled me in Toulon. I am surprised you did not find an excuse for it sooner.”

“I could not,” he said, utterly, breathtakingly earnest. He lay his hand on Valjean’s chest, feeling the curve of the muscle, the pounding of his heart beneath. “I knew in my heart of hearts that my motive for it was not justified. I waited until that final moment so my temptation would not be given time to fester.”

“You have always stood apart.”

Javert shook his head. 

“I can’t claim to have succeeded in that, can I?” he asked. “You disappeared and suddenly I had all the justification I needed to seek you out. I would see you again, I knew I would—I would track you, find you, seize you as I wished to do before… but with a righteous reason for it. My temptation fueled my search.”

“Perhaps it was understandable given our connection.”

“That does not absolve me. My zeal could make my quite crazed.” He searched Valjean’s face for a long moment. “I feel a bit crazed now if I am honest. I have wanted for so long, I can scarcely imagine what it could be like to have.”

“You have me, Javert—here, now. I doubt it will be all you have built it up to be, but I… I am quite amenable to whatever you should desire,” Valjean said. “As long as you understand that I have not done such a thing before and so will likely be found lacking.”

“I have no one with whom to compare you. No one is born into the world with inherent knowledge of the passions of the flesh. We all must stumble along and learn.”

“You have given more thought to the specifics than I. I believe that means you, then, should guide the process. What do you want from tonight?”

“You are offering up a buffet to a starving man.”

“I have never been compared with a buffet before,” Valjean said, a sheepish smile curving his lips; Javert ducked his head, smiling—and sheepish!—too.

“Valjean, what I would like… is for you to take me. That is how I’ve always imagined it, and I think it would suit us both.”

“Then I think it might suit us if we were both more undressed.”

“It would. It is not, however, a requirement,” Javert admitted, two spots of color prominent on his cheekbones.

Valjean chuckled. “You truly have given thought to the specifics.” 

He moved to loosen Javert’s cravat and the other man held his head high as fingers moved over his throat, his gaze fixed in the distance as he became lost in his thoughts and sensations. 

“I am going to unbutton your trousers now—is that all right?” Javert nodded, his eyes dropping to Valjean’s hands as he reached for the buttons. “And if I were to touch your body—if I warned you first, would that help you to brace yourself for it, so this might not end precipitously?”

Again, Javert nodded, if with a bit more hesitance behind it. After all, he could not be one hundred percent sure of his own reactions, given the fact that he had never had Valjean’s hands on any of the flesh he usually hid beneath his clothing.

Valjean let the flap fall forward, which only allowed him tantalizing hints of Javert’s body under the covering of his shirttails. “Might I remove your shirt?”

Javert lowered his own braces, and shucked his shirt over his head. 

Perhaps Valjean was being too cautious. The sudden expanse of skin before him set his own skin to flush. He skimmed his hand over Javert’s belly and chest, just close enough to brush over the hair there, feeling heat from his skin without quite touching him.

“Javert.”

“Mmm?”

“Might I… Do you think I might taste you?”

Javert’s eyes widened in surprise, but he nodded his assent quickly.

Unable to restrain himself any longer, Valjean bent to mouth his way across Javert’s collarbone and down his sternum, leaving a trail of open-mouthed kisses in his wake. Following along the curve of his pectoral until he hovered over a stiffened nipple, he said, “Would you mind if I—?”

“Please.”

Javert groaned when Valjean’s mouth closed around the nipple, and his hips gave a lurch. “All right?”

“Yes,” he said, clipped; his eyes were closed.

“You can still touch me in return, you know. You have not lost permission for it.”

Javert buried his hand in Valjean’s hair again and pulled his head to his chest. When Valjean dragged his teeth over his nipple, he gripped tight at Javert’s waist, keeping him distant enough that he could not rock against him. Each abortive move of his hips, however, caused his loose trousers to slip, and it was not long before gravity made them fall low enough to reveal his swollen prick in its entirety.

Valjean couldn’t help but look. He was only human—not the saint so many painted him. The idea that Javert was in such a state because of him… It was unbelievable. It was unbelievable that this unbending man would bend for him, and do so with such eagerness. It was unbelievable that they were here, together, if he thought about where they started.

“Valjean,” said Javert, his voice deep and passion-rough. “Can I… Please, can I see you?”

Valjean nodded even as he started to undo the two rows of buttons on his trousers. He took a breath and pushed them down his hips, looking up at Javert with his chin raised, pretending at a confidence he hardly felt.

There was hunger, though, in Javert’s eyes and the man’s hand clenched as if he had to restrain himself from reaching for what had been presented before him.

Valjean had never stood proudly in his nakedness before. It seemed a foolish thing to take pride in—a physical attribute the development of which he had no control. For Javert to view him as desirable here as in the strength of his flank… There was something like pride that spread within him at the thought. 

“Would… If I were to touch…?”

“You may do as you please.”

Javert wrapped a hand around Valjean’s girth, letting out a moan as soon as the weight of him settled against his palm. He gave an experimental stroke, and then another, his attention split between Valjean’s face and his prick.

Valjean had not known another’s touch before now, and Javert’s was neither gentle nor rough. He spared a thought to wonder if this was the way Javert preferred to touch himself, but the image was too sweet for his amorous body to cope with. He seized Javert’s forearm in a tight grip, halting his movements.

“Javert—oh! Javert, I fear if I allow you to continue so, I will be the one to end this precipitously.”

No more needed to be said about the matter. They shed their trousers and their stockings and their shoes, as swift and awkward as a pair of inexperienced youths—an undignified display by men of their age and station, even if the inexperience rang true.

Valjean pulled Javert along with him as he climbed onto the bed, and they both stole kisses from one another as they crawled their way towards the pillow. Javert dropped himself down onto it with a sigh.

“You will need to prepare me,” Javert said, in between kisses. “I… I would do it myself, but I am not sure I am comfortable enough yet with the idea of someone watching while I do.”

Valjean fumbled for the jar of hand cream he kept on his bedside table, as good for dry winter skin as for other uses. Javert let his legs fall apart as Valjean knelt between them, dipping a couple fingers into the cream. 

A quick glance down was the only hesitation Valjean allowed himself, and then he brought his fingers to circle around Javert’s opening, chasing after the odd gasp and moan with added pressure.

“Am I correct in assuming you have done this to yourself before?” 

“You are correct—I have done this to myself many times.”

A curious thought occurred to Valjean. He could ask it. Should he ask? Dare he ask?

“And have you ever thought of me while you did?”

Javert’s gaze burned. “I have always thought of you,” he said. 

“Always?”

He nodded. “Even in Toulon. Sweet Jesus, Valjean, but it felt shameful then. Once I understood the act, I could not help but want it, but you were not mine to have.”

“I am yours now,” he said, and Javert let out a whine as Valjean’s fingers began to breach him.

“I have not indulged, as of late,” he said, panting a bit against the sensation of fingers moving within him. “I would have been unable to meet your eye with such a thing ready in my memory.”

“You truly must have been wanting, then, if you have abstained.”

“I have been… but being near you is enough to sustain me, if need be.”

Valjean bent to kiss Javert, and Javert yielded under the pressure of his tongue the same as he yielded below. He held back not at all, allowing a deep and heady movement to build between them until Valjean could hardly breathe. 

After a while, Javert tore his mouth away and said, “Valjean, enough. I need more of you than this.”

“If you are sure,” he said against his lips.

Javert dug his fingers into Valjean’s hips and said, “Dear God, never in my life have I been more sure of anything, and I am often sure.”

Valjean could hardly imagine that this was real and true and he was not lost in the midst of a delirious fever dream. He had never really thought to take someone or be taken before Javert, and even when he thought of it with Javert, it was still some far off fantasy, a maybe someday, a distant dream. To have the man trembling beneath him now seemed impossible, but his body felt too hot and solid to be only in his mind.

Valjean’s body felt too hot, too stiff for this to be mere fantasy, also. He sucked in a breath through his teeth as he spread some of the cool cream over his own flesh.

At last, Valjean took himself in hand and aligned himself so he could press the broad tip of his prick against Javert’s slicked opening. He had felt Javert’s body yield under the pressure from his fingers, but it did not prepare him for the wonder of watching him yield to his prick. He was slower to accommodate the thickness, but that was no surprise. It was, however, much more difficult for Valjean to keep his own head as the impossible heat enveloped him. 

“Javert…”

“Easy, easy… it will come.”

Javert’s thumb moved over the sweat-slick skin at Valjean’s neck, and Valjean allowed the movement to relax his nerves. Choosing to believe that Javert would stop him if anything was wrong, he continued to press steadily forward; Javert hummed his approval, pushing into Valjean’s movement.

All at once, some tightness gave way and Valjean sank further, a groan escaping his lips as Javert’s body greedily accepted him until they were flush against each other. 

“You see?”

“Yes,” he said, in between quick pants of air, as he attempted to adjust to the snug warmth. “Might I start to move?”

“Please do,” Javert said, his voice catching when Valjean began to shift within him; he wrapped his arms around Valjean’s back as he worked to find a rhythm.

“Is there anything you need from me?”

“No, no… Whatever you need, Valjean, you can take. I am… My God, this is more than I dreamed.”

“If you feel half the ecstasy I feel, Javert—”

“I do, I swear it, I do.” 

Valjean need not seek his own pleasure, for the sounds that Javert made guided him on. The speed of his hips, the force behind his movements, the depth of them—all of it dictated by his lover’s voice crying out. 

It could have lasted an eternity, it could have been a blink before they tipped over the brink into bliss—Valjean would never be able to say for sure. He thought it couldn’t have been very long, just judging by how far gone they had been at the start. 

When he came back to himself a bit, Valjean became aware of a warm stickiness between their bodies. He made to climb off Javert, whose hips gave an involuntary thrust when he withdrew from him.

“You spent before I had the chance to touch you,” he said, wonder evident in his tone.

“You found such satisfaction in my body, I could not help it,” Javert said, all but collapsed into a breathless, boneless puddle against the pillow.

What a thought that was! What an idea! Valjean could hardly think of it, it felt so lovely.

He crushed their mouths together and Javert pulled him down on top of him with what little strength remained in his limbs.

Moonlight shone through the window into Valjean’s bedroom, past the curtains he had forgotten to close in his exhaustion earlier in the evening. The bright light falling across his bed woke him this time, but it was not unusual for him to wake in the night in any case. It was, however, unusual for him to wake feeling quite so tranquil.

As he came to awareness, Valjean found he could not move. There was a weight upon his chest, and warm breath stirring the hairs there—such a foreign sensation to experience after a lifetime alone. He had not had the time to fall in love when he was young, the opportunity to find and take a lover even less so… and the bizarre dance of fascination and intrigue he had engaged in at a distance with a young guard had not registered at the time as the early moments of either.

Tonight, Javert had wrapped himself around Valjean and pressed them together as closely and completely as he could manage while they slept; even their legs were entangled. It was the first time in years Valjean had woken restrained in any meaningful way, and the contrast of contexts felt so poignant, it caused his heart to ache. 

There had been no panic in it, not even at the moment of awakening. Something in his soul had quieted, some underlying buzz of discontent he hadn’t even registered until it left him.

Peace. This was what peace felt like. A deep, abiding peace unlike any he had ever experienced. Peace in knowing someone, and in being known.

Valjean was not meant to be alone, that much was clear to him now. Javert was meant to be with him. He had told Javert as much earlier in the evening, but now he knew for certain it had not been a mere sentimental platitude—a wish, a dream—but a truth. 

Fate had known before either of them what was possible, and he was thankful they had found a way to navigate the obstacles between them thus far to fulfill the promise of their connection. Valjean could almost weep at the beauty of it, and perhaps he would, in time.

For now, he let out a contented sigh and brought his hand up to brush against Javert’s shoulder; the other man slowly stirred. 

“Valjean?”

“Mmm.” Valjean dropped a kiss to the crown of Javert’s head. “You’re still here,” he said.

“I am,” he said, still half asleep, burrowing his head further into the pillow of Valjean’s chest. “Is that a problem?”

“A problem? No. Quite the opposite, in fact,” Valjean said, tracing a finger around the shape of his own raised handprint on the man’s bare skin. “Would you stay with me through the night this night? I know you worry what others may think if they were to witness you leaving here in the light of the morning, but tonight… I confess I cannot fathom being parted from you so soon after what we’ve shared.”

“Let the busybodies have their gossip. I do not wish to leave you either.”

“It is settled, then. We shall stay abed until we are rested.” A moment of indecision passed and Valjean added, “And if you should rise before me…”

“I shall wake you before I go.” Javert’s hand began to move sleepily up and down Valjean’s flank, too firm a touch to be ticklish. “Is that something you would want as we go forward?”

“Yes. It would be greatly appreciated,” he said, resting his chin atop Javert’s head and tightening his hold on the man briefly, as if that alone would assure he would not wake again to an empty bed after falling asleep next to him.

Valjean absently ran his fingers over the expanse of Javert’s back, drawing his fingernails over his bare skin and feeling the answering shiver run through the other man. He was beginning to learn the topography of his lover’s body, a type of map he had never thought he would have occasion to make. There were so many firsts they could share with each other, to match the firsts they shared tonight.

Knowing Javert, though, he had drawn a rudimentary map of Valjean’s own body in his mind already, years now out of date. It was still odd to think Javert had desired him all those years ago; Valjean could not fathom anything worthy of desire in the brute he once was.

He had never really considered that it could be pleasant, to share in his nakedness with another. Nakedness for him was never a comfortable thing—he had been displayed far too publicly in various states of undress for it to sit easy with him. 

But this was private. They were together in it. Being vulnerable with Javert in the safety of his own bedroom, with the other man just as, if not more, vulnerable as he… it was a completely different experience. An enlightening one.

Javert snuffled into his chest. “Your thoughts are very loud.”

“Are they?” Valjean said, with a chuckle. “Forgive me—I shall endeavor to quiet them.”

“Is the subject of your thoughts one I should be concerned about?”

“No, no… I am merely attempting to become more accustomed to our new reality,” he said. “I am not well-versed with intimacies of any kind with anyone; tonight has opened my eyes to the potential for joy in sharing of yourself with another. I only hope I did not disappoint as a lover.”

Javert craned his neck to meet Valjean’s gaze. “That is a silly worry—did you not cause me to finish without a touch?”

“Climax is not the only goal of lovemaking.”

“Says the expert on such things.”

“Javert.”

Javert pushed himself up so he could look down at Valjean, with an arm braced against his pillow; he ducked his head to look him directly in the eye and said, “You did not disappoint. You could not disappoint. Not after wanting for so long.”

Valjean frowned. “It seems all the more likely then.”

“No. Any attention from you at all would’ve been enough.” His brow furrowed as he grew quite serious for a moment. “If you want my honesty, Valjean, I would not have needed it to be positive attention for it to please me… although I am grateful that it was. You are generous in this as in anything else.”

He laid his hand at the side of Valjean’s neck, and Valjean wondered if he could feel the speed of his pulse beating beneath his fingers.

“I have never before felt as wanted as I’ve felt tonight. Not anywhere, Valjean. Not once,” Javert said. “In every moment, no matter how small. Even in the simple act of cleaning me, of cleaning yourself after, I felt it. Such gentle thoroughness is foreign to me. It did not seem as if you couldn’t wait to be rid of every trace of me.”

“Why would I… Javert, please tell me you do not think yourself so tainted that I would wish to erase you!”

Javert let out a huff. “Perhaps I shouldn’t,” he said, and the curtain of his hair obscured the moonlight from the window as he bent to take Valjean’s mouth. 

This was so different from the other kisses he had initiated. The desperate edge was missing, the uncertainty, the disbelief. Valjean wondered if Javert felt a peace similar to what he himself felt on the other side of their coupling, and was more confident now in his welcome as a result.

Slowly, Javert moved so he hovered above Valjean on forearms and knees, one of each on either side of him, caging him in. Captured again by his one-time pursuer, Valjean took his time exploring as much of Javert’s body as he could reach. 

When Javert pulled back, it was with a deep sigh, and he studied Valjean’s face at his leisure. He combed his fingers through Valjean’s beard, neatening the mess he had made of it with his kisses and he traced the lines etched by Valjean’s dimples when he smiled.

“What does it feel like to be in love?” Javert asked, after a while, his gaze focused somewhere in the vicinity of Valjean’s chin.

Valjean’s heart clenched. What a question to hear from Javert’s lips!

He maneuvered Javert’s head up so he could meet his eye. “You assume I have felt such a thing in the past.”

“You are so soft-hearted deep within, I only thought—”

Valjean shook his head. “I believe we are learning of it now together.”

“Truly? Well. If this is what people speak of, I cannot understand how the world has continued to turn amidst the magnitude of it. I feel I might die if we are parted.” A strangled laugh escaped Javert. “I feel the strength of this might kill me anyway.”

“You have done yourself a disservice thinking yourself hard-hearted, Javert. It is only the feelings themselves which have been hard, not your heart. You feel as fiercely as any poet or dreamer who has come before you.”

“I doubt if I am suited for such feelings. I do not know how to tame them.”

“That will come, I am sure,” Valjean said. “I know for instance I must not keep you here indefinitely and cause us both to neglect our duties to the town, no matter how much I may wish it.”

“We would both run mad before long, I think. However would you rid yourself of spare sous if I am the only one near you?”

Valjean’s eyebrows shot up. “And if I am the only one you might apprehend?”

“Oh, I believe in that I could be quite satisfied,” Javert said, leaning close enough again that his breath danced across Valjean’s face, stirring his whiskers.

“Is that so?” Valjean said against his lips.

“I am quite sure of it, yes,” he said, and caught Valjean’s mouth in another kiss.

Valjean searched Javert’s mouth in turn, chasing sounds and heat and wanting, and as he pulled away again, he closed his teeth on Javert’s lower lip. Javert growled at the sensation and he clutched at Valjean.

“Jean,” he breathed; his voice stopped Valjean in an instant. 

Valjean gazed up into Javert’s striking eyes, heart beating in double time. 

“Thank you,” he breathed, “for using my name. I have not been able to be Jean outside of myself for a very long time.”

“Within these walls, with me, you are always Jean Valjean,” Javert said, and it sounded like a solemn promise. “Not some benevolent mystery who appeared as if from Heaven itself. I know you, even if they must not. Do not forget that.”

Javert pressed one more kiss to Valjean’s lips before he sat back on Valjean’s thighs, and Valjean’s gaze dropped down along his bare body of its own volition. He was captivating, bathed in moonlight as he was, and Valjean could hardly believe his fortune to have such a sight displayed before him, begging to be explored with more than just his eyes. They were no longer at risk of spoiling the excitement of the night, having both been sated once already, and his curiosity could not be stronger.

Valjean laid his hands just above Javert’s knees, ran them up his muscular thighs, and then back down again. The moment stretched, long and taut with tension—but the moment was not the only thing that had begun to stretch.

Neither of them was an especially young man anymore, and so their interest took some time to stir in earnest, but it was still clear enough it had started to do so. For both of them.

Valjean moved to trace his way up Javert’s torso, his fingers moving along his ribs and the slight indents between them. His fingertip brushed a rough, raised scar, which would nearly be covered by Javert’s arm when it was down at his side. Judging by the texture and width of it, it had been a serious wound and the healing hadn’t been easy. It was one of many scars, but clearly the worst that he could see.

“Should I even ask to know what caused this?” Valjean said, drawing his fingers over the jagged mark. “Or would the answer only grieve me?”

“There are many who would not miss the chance to strike out in spite or desperation when caught, even if it would worsen the charges against them,” Javert said. “You know my work carries risk.”

“I wish that it did not. A futile wish, I know, but…” Valjean trailed off and sighed. “My soft heart rears its head again. There is too much danger documented on your skin to sit easy with me.”

Javert’s newest scar, the one below his mark, had not yet faded silver like the rest. It spoke to the age of most of the others just how angry it still looked.

Valjean reached for it, and Javert shivered as his thumb brushed along it. “Does this one cause you any pain, still?”

“There has been a tightness to it, at times.” 

“And now?”

“Now? Now I prefer to think on other things,” Javert said, growing restless at the attention.

He began to shift his way down the bed, bending to press his lips to Valjean’s skin as he went—to his neck, his chest, his belly, just below his navel… There was a reverence in his touch and in his kisses as he moved over scar and brand and unmarred skin alike, as if there was no difference. As if Valjean was still the innocent tree pruner he once was, with nothing more than fear and frustration on his conscience or the marks of clumsy youthful mishaps on his skin.

It seemed there was no difference in Javert’s mind—Jean Valjean was Jean-le-Cric was Madeleine. That had been a problem once. Now it only meant he was the single person on this earth who knew the whole of Valjean and would not shy away in shame or judgement. Valjean did not have to explain any of it—Javert knew he was the same man as much as he was a different one.

When Javert’s lips found their way to Valjean’s prick, his introspection had no hope of continuing. When he closed a large hand around the base, Valjean consciously forced his hips to remain still, as still as he could manage. When his tongue snuck out to taste him there, Valjean threw his head back into the pillow and pressed his fist to his mouth to stifle the sounds that escaped him. 

The vibration from Javert’s quiet chuckle was a sweet torment, and his firm grip both a blessing and a curse, teasing at a thrill not yet at hand. It did not take long for Javert to coax his flesh to fill and stiffen completely, despite their earlier pleasures. The last time excitement had found Valjean this readily more than once in a day, it had been an annoyance, a distraction, nothing more. This? This was different.

Valjean had seen this act performed in the bagne many times, but it was often violent or forceful there—demeaning, even. He had never desired it, from either position. In Javert’s hands and mouth though, the act seemed… worshipful. And Valjean could not deny how good the attentions felt, how readily his body took to them—even if the idea that Javert thought him worthy of such worship was far outside of his understanding.

Then Javert took him fully into his mouth and suddenly everything was outside of his understanding.

There was mischief behind Javert’s eyes when he looked up at Valjean, holding his gaze while he moved his head; Valjean was sure if Javert had done that earlier than evening, it would have meant the end of their activities in an instant. Even still, the image of him there would be forever etched into Valjean’s memory.

Eventually—and not a moment too soon—Javert withdrew his mouth, but continued to stroke Valjean almost lazily. He kissed the crease of his groin and spoke in a low voice against his skin, “Might we have each other again?”

“I wouldn’t ask you to give of yourself more than you can bear.”

“Jean. It is no sacrifice on my part.”

“Is it not?” 

Javert chuckled again. “Hardly.”

Valjean covered the side of Javert’s face with his hand, drawing his thumb through the hair at his cheek; Javert pressed into his touch. 

“Perhaps it is my inexperience speaking,” Valjean said, “but I have always found the appeal of that bemusing.”

“You have not entertained the desire. I understand. Just… know there is much pleasure in it, for one who wants it,” Javert assured. “I found immense pleasure in it earlier. Both in the act itself, and in offering myself to you.”

Javert moved to sit astride Valjean again, and Valjean beckoned him to lean in for another kiss. He pressed the jar of cream into Javert’s hand. 

Breaking the kiss, he said, “I will endeavor to believe you will not push yourself too far for my benefit.”

“I would not lie, especially about this. I crave to feel you again,” Javert said, and then he punctuated each phrase with a kiss, a suckle, a scrape of his teeth, “So close. So strong. So hot and thick, moving within me.”

Javert reached down and slicked Valjean with the cream and then aligned him with his opening, steadying his prick as he pushed down against the blunt pressure. Valjean could not help but groan—it did not take as long for Javert’s body to allow him entry as it had earlier, and he soon found himself enveloped in his impossible heat once more.

Valjean again was grateful he had spent once already, for that and the change in position was all that kept him in check. Javert this time controlled the pace and depth of their coupling, and it was a fascinating sight to behold. He ran his hands up Javert’s thighs again, but this time he dragged his thumbs up the sensitive insides of them, pushing into the flesh with each roll of Javert’s hips.

“I always believed this would be good,” Javert said, his breath coming in ragged pants. “The thought of it would not have taken up so much of my focus if I did not. Still, it is so much better than I expected it to be.”

He ground down on Valjean with his head back and his eyes screwed shut, one hand braced against Valjean’s chest.

“It is a wonder you did not seek it out before tonight, if you knew how much pleasure you could find in it.”

Javert shook his head, vehement. “It would’ve had to be you. There is no one else I would have wanted to share this with than you,” he insisted. “That is regardless of our connection. I wanted this from you long before I knew we were meant for each other by fate.”

Javert’s hand moved over his own length as he rocked, his pace speeding up as he explored the expanse of Valjean’s chest, the fingers of his other hand curious and thorough. Valjean studied the way he gripped himself, the places he lingered, the speed and the pressure of it…

When he thought he had gleaned enough to make a proper attempt, he bit his lip and moved to brush Javert’s hand away from his prick, and to replace it with his own hand. 

Valjean knew his hands were rough, but so were Javert’s—and Javert had not been gentle with himself. He sought to match Javert’s attentions as best he could with that in mind. He must’ve done a decent enough job of it, for it wasn’t long before Javert’s breath caught, and his hips jerked, and he began to spend, spilling over Valjean’s hand.

Valjean’s own climax was wrung from him then—the sight and sensation of Javert finding his pleasure surrounding him was simply far too much for him to endure without being moved himself. 

Winded, Javert slumped against Valjean’s chest, his sweat drenched skin sliding over Valjean’s own. 

Valjean framed Javert’s face in his hands, pressing a fond kiss to his lips that was nearly chaste in its tenderness.

“I think we shall master this yet,” he said, and the pair of them descended into a fit of breathless laughter.

Javert was used to being watched. He had had eyes on him his whole life. From the moment he first came to awareness of a world outside himself, he had felt it—judgement and suspicion in the beginning, and then appraisal and respect, hatred and even fear. He was not, however, used to having people look upon him admiringly. Valjean was perhaps the only one before these past few weeks, and even that was recent enough the novelty had yet to wear off.

This visit was not the only one he had made to the factory that had taken an odd turn as of late. The factory girls were obviously quite relieved to be rid of the lech of a foreman who had spent more time looking for opportunities to let his hands wander than actually making sure the factory ran smoothly and free of conflict. Of course, he had ulterior motives on top of his lechery to keep the factory from running as smoothly as it could, but the outcome of his removal was the same regardless.

Since the arrest, Javert had been met with grateful smiles, discreet nods of acknowledgement, the occasional bow or blushing curtsy, even a few attempts at handshakes, and one especially misguided effort at a hug… All of it was odd. All of it made him wonder if Valjean or someone else was talking him up when he wasn’t present, for usually his demeanor was enough to dissuade such public displays of appreciation. 

On this particular day, Javert had nearly made it all the way to the staircase to Valjean’s office before one of the girls decided to approach him.

“Inspector Javert?”

Javert closed his eyes and steeled himself, then turned on his heel to face the girl.

“Yes?”

“I beg your pardon, Inspector, this is for you.”

A rosary hung down from her outstretched hand, one of the very same rosaries the workers were currently beading. Javert made no move to take it from her.

“I could not take one of M. Madeleine’s rosaries without paying for it first.”

“You needn’t pay, Inspector. I bought it with my own money, as a gift to you. For what you have done for us all, of course.”

“Forgive me, mademoiselle. It would be improper of me to accept a gift from you, or any of your coworkers for that matter. I can accept only your gratitude at a job well-done, for all I have done is my duty—nothing more.”

“Oh, I think you undersell yourself, monsieur. I hope someday you might permit me to show you just how grateful I am,” she said, cocking her head a bit and looking up at him from beneath her eyelashes.

Javert clenched his jaw. “You have already expressed it clearly,” he said, sharply. “Now I must take my leave or the mayor will be upset at my tardiness.”

He brushed the girl off with a stiff nod and started up the stairs. As he ascended, he gazed out over the worktables in confusion, taking in the chatter hidden behind hands and the coy looks sent his way.

One of Valjean’s new foremen caught his eye with an unusual expression on his face. It wasn’t the strange sort of lewd leer that men sometimes tried to share with him in regards to a woman, as if expecting to find a shared lust to commiserate over. This look held more of an understanding, an acknowledgement in it. 

Somehow in that moment, Javert became aware that the other man must know why he found such an advance from the girl unwanted. The man was like him, like Valjean. He wondered if Valjean knew. 

The door to the office lay open, but Javert knocked on the jamb anyway. Valjean looked up from the paperwork he was engrossed in, and his eyes brightened.

“Inspector Javert! I had hoped you would make it before the afternoon today.”

“Yes, thankfully the citizens have managed to set aside their petty squabbles for the morning,” he said, shutting the door behind him and striding the length of the room to sit across from Valjean. “The new foremen are settling in well? They’ve been a welcome change, I gather.”

Valjean began neatening his paperwork, tapping the edge of the pile against his desk to align the sheets, before tucking them away in a drawer. “I have yet to hear a single ill word spoken about either of them. They appear to be a pair of upright, responsible men, who above all know to keep their hands to themselves.”

Javert worried at his whiskers with his fingers, unsure if he could parse any underlying meaning in Valjean’s words. “Monsieur, you must realize—”

“Of course I realize,” Valjean interrupted, his voice curt. “Do you not think I chose them for precisely that reason? There should be one less potential source of scandal if the girls can go about their business without fear their foreman would disgrace himself coercing attentions from them on pain of unemployment. I have done my penance for my negligence.”

“I sought not your penance, monsieur.”

“I know, Javert, I know.” Valjean took a deep breath and held it for a moment before he let it out slowly and continued. “I feel… ill-at-ease over how easily that situation might have taken a different turn, if not for our intervention. The ripples from a stone tossed into the water spread far and wide. I would not be sitting across from you now if not for a loaf of bread baked decades ago. What would have become of Fantine and little Cosette if we had not stepped in that day?”

“That I do not know,” Javert admitted. 

The thought did not sit well with him; Valjean was right to be troubled by it. 

Javert shook himself before he allowed himself to contemplate such things further. He was not accustomed to concerning himself with ruminations about how small acts of despair could alter a person’s entire path—could alter many paths—for if that was the case universally, oh! The implications were far-reaching, indeed. He could easily lose himself to such ruminations. Better to not think on it at all.

“However did you come to find men like your new foremen?” he asked, hoping to redirect the conversation towards less fraught subjects. “It’s not as if you could ask around in search of such a pair.”

“They approached me, in fact. They devised the plan to divide the shifts between them, which suits them fine as they are growing older and would like to work less if it would not hinder their income greatly.”

“I am certain you have found a way to make sure it does not hinder it at all.”

Valjean’s lips twitched in amusement. “They do take on more responsibilities with the new position. More responsibilities should warrant better pay.”

“I suppose if your finances are such that you did not notice your previous foreman essentially siphoning funds from your purse, this would be a mere pittance in comparison.”

“A pittance I am more than happy to part with. There has been little money to spare between the men for years, so they’ve made do with splitting the cost of a very cramped set of rooms. With the higher pay, they’re looking forward to being able to move into larger lodgings at long last. In fact, they’ve already started looking at homes closer to the countryside, and by their description of the general area, I believe I understand the appeal.”

Javert’s ears pricked at something in Valjean’s tone and he leaned in closer, drawn in by the pointed nonchalance in Valjean’s posture as he spoke. He was acting cagey, for some reason—and poorly. Sometimes, Valjean wore Madeleine like an ill-fitting jacket, and Javert was surprised in those moments that he was the only one who could see it.

“It seems a pleasant idea, to be quite honest—to live a quiet life like that, further from the hustle and bustle of downtown, the stifling press of constant expectations… Not to mention the prying eyes. Don’t you think?”

At that, Valjean met Javert’s eye across the table. What was it he was suggesting, exactly? Surely, he couldn’t mean to enter into a similar arrangement with Javert. The gossip would never cease!

“You know so much about these men outside of work. Tell me you haven’t… told them about your own life to ingratiate yourself with them.”

“No more than they have told me about themselves in any direct way—the implications are clear enough if one knows how to read them. I am sure they suspect of me what is true of themselves, given the manner of their candidness with regards to their living situation.”

When maintaining eye contact with Valjean tightened his chest beyond what he could bear, Javert broke it and looked away, studying the marks on the worn wooden desktop. “I believe the man on duty today suspects the same of me.”

“Like recognizes like sometimes, I think.”

“Do you… Would you say perhaps they might have puzzled out that you and I are…?”

Valjean pursed his lips. “They might have done. I couldn’t say. I am not sure how much they have observed the two of us together,” he said. “But if they’ve heard the rumors, and they feel enough at ease not to bury their own regard for each other too deeply around me, then perhaps everything might add up to the truth and still not be cause for alarm.”

Javert nodded, still pensive.

“You might speak with the men and form an opinion of them yourself. You have not been formally introduced.”

Javert shook his head and waved him off. “It can wait for another day, monsieur. I believe I have socialized with enough strangers for the day, and I am not looking to develop any passing acquaintances into friendships. I require very few personal connections to remain in good humor.”

Valjean’s mouth quirked up into a hint of smile. “I have noticed that.”

Javert scowled. “You’re having a laugh at my expense.”

“Do not take it to heart, Inspector. You are not the only near hermit in this room.”

“Of course. Forgive me,” Javert said, his stomach sinking in dismay. “I mean no offense either, monsieur. I find I am a bit out of sorts today.”

“Is something amiss?”

“A few of the factory girls have taken liberties with me these past few visits.”

Valjean frowned. “How do you mean?”

“I think perhaps they have made incorrect assumptions about me based on my actions regarding the arrest of your former foreman. They become too familiar, more so with each passing day. One approached me just today, attempting to offer me one of your rosaries as a gift. She assured me it had been duly paid for, but one can never be certain.”

“Is that so objectionable? The workers are grateful. Some of the girls have come to believe that they have found a quiet champion in their stern police inspector.”

“They believe too much of me, then.”

“I do not think they do, Inspector. They appreciate that you do not take your status as their protector and press it to take advantage as others might. I hear them speak amongst themselves—even the ones who would seek to be more forward with their gratitude find no purchase in you.”

“Monsieur, that is precisely the source of my complaint. The girl today made insinuations as to how she might express her gratitude outside of the gift, and if I recall previous interactions, I believe some might have been much the same, if not as clear to me at the time,” Javert explained. “I am not accustomed to receiving attention of that sort from women. As you know, it is not strength of will that caused me to rebuff it. I am not so flattered by their assessment of me if I am given credit for that which I did not recognize in the first.”

“I understand that, Javert. It is sometimes simpler to allow the mistaken belief than to explain the truth. Safer, too.”

“I know you cannot enjoy being misread regardless. I misread you for years. It chafes like a lie.”

“Of course I don’t enjoy it. Javert, I…” He let out a heavy sigh. “You could go out there now and do something to ruin their opinion of you if you wished to. I do not advise it.”

“No. That would be imprudent. No reason to paint myself as even more a target of their curiosity.”

“There are advantages to misinterpretation at times, especially when you do not have to work to encourage it. You do however have to learn to sit with the unease.”

“Sit with the unease,” Javert repeated, letting out a disgruntled sound as he crossed his arms over his chest. “Do that long enough and they might even make you mayor.”

That surprised a snort out of Valjean. “Well. It is not without its complications, I will admit. In any case, I wouldn’t be threatened by the people viewing you in a positive light. What they see is an eligible man in good standing—that is only in your favor.”

“Seeing me that way is one thing. If they believe continuing to pursue me is wise or… or at all wanted, I swear I will—”

“Let it be known you are pledged to another and all but the most obstinate will let it be, I am sure.”

It took a moment for Javert to find another breath, so startled was he by Valjean’s suggestion. “And if they were to ask to whom I have pledged myself…?”

“You are well within your rights to tell them it is a private matter,” Valjean said. “These are not falsehoods. Your reputation as an honest man will reinforce the truth in your assertions. And if that is not enough? I will have to have a talk with them.”

“I pray it does not come to that. What is now a nuisance could easily become more than that. Especially if…” Javert trailed off and shook his head.

“Especially if what?”

“I cannot mask fully my regard for you. Even when I did not recognize it for what it was, I could not… and it drew attention then as it does now. I fear they will all know in time, and it will be to our detriment. If I have you fight battles for me, or scold women who mean to pursue me…”

“It would feed the rumors,” Valjean said, and his tone was tinged with sadness. 

There was a weariness in the way Valjean held his body that caused Javert’s chest to ache. It was all he could do not to drop to the floor and crawl to kneel at his feet. He remained seated, however, and somehow also stopped himself from reaching for him across the desktop. 

“I am not ashamed of you. If it would not threaten everything, I would shout my regard from the rooftops. I would bare your mark for all to see. I would—”

“Thank you, Javert,” Valjean said, his voice a warm rumble. “Know that I feel the same, and would do the same, if only I could.”

The pair sat together for a few moments, in a silent battle against a longing for that which cannot be. Eventually, Javert gathered himself enough to commence with his report.

There was nothing of particular note for Javert to inform Valjean of for the week, so once they got down to the business at hand, it passed rather quickly. Neither of them was particularly glad for it. 

Each meeting, it grew more difficult to part from each other, more difficult to spend time with each other without being distracted by the desperate desire to stray from the bounds of their public duty to the town. But part they must, for precisely that reason. They could not be fully themselves in a room lined with windows above a factory lined with potential spectators. They could only be fully themselves behind the closed doors of Valjean’s rooms.

Valjean was right. The scrutiny was stifling. Javert could not allow himself to think too long on the idea of an escape from it. He could easily lose himself to those ruminations, too.

He was about to pull open the office door when Valjean called out behind him, “Javert, one last moment, please.” 

He turned back to face Valjean, who retrieved something from within his desk drawer and approached him. He took his hand and pressed a small package into it, covering the motion in a handshake. “To replenish your supply. I noticed it running low during our recent meetings.”

Javert waited until Valjean had returned to sit behind his desk again before he looked down to see what he had handed him. 

It was a fresh batch of snuff. 

Javert felt his face heat. He had allowed himself to indulge more often than usual as of late, but then again he had experienced more satisfaction as of late as well, and that was the stipulation he relied upon to permit the indulgence—regardless, apparently, of the cause. The thought that Valjean had not only taken note of his habit, but had also taken note of the supply level dwindling left him with an odd feeling in his chest.

He swallowed against the sudden tightness of his throat and said, “Thank you, Monsieur le Maire.”

“Of course it is best if no one knows I have given you that, what with all this talk of gifts.”

“I suppose you are more permitted to offer me gifts than the others are.”

“As mayor?”

“No, as…” Javert trailed off, and suddenly the toes of his boots became endlessly fascinating.

Valjean cleared his throat and when he spoke again, his surprise at Javert’s aborted sentence was evident. “I am pleased you have found a way to keep such things separate in your mind.”

“I have certainly benefited from honing my ability to do so since you and I have become… better acquainted. I find it covers all manner of discordant concepts.” 

Valjean allowed his public mask to slip for a moment, fully and completely. It happened rarely when they met at his office here at the factory—it was far too easy to be observed and far too difficult to know when they were. His expression now was softened with affection, the likes of which, if they had been truly alone, would have inspired Javert to cross the room to take his captivating face into his hands and kiss his lips. 

The restraint Javert had learned since coming to Montreuil-sur-Mer dwarfed the vaunted restraint he had practiced all his life.

“It is a fine day,” Valjean said. “If the weather holds, I should like to accompany you on your rounds tonight. If you are amenable, of course.”

“I am, monsieur. As always, I am ready and willing to accommodate you whenever it is feasible.”

Valjean caught his gaze, a spark of heat behind his eyes. So he had read Javert’s meaning between his words. Good. If his rounds were to pass without much difficulty, perhaps Valjean would even invite him back to his rooms afterwards.

“Thank you, Inspector. Your fellowship is as ever appreciated.”

Javert shook his head to himself as he set off away from the factory. He had become the type of man he had in the past thought foolish… but it was as ever true that love made one foolish. He could, however, no longer conclude that it was a negative thing to be brought low by such a wondrous force—not now that he had felt it. 

No, now he could not understand those who took such things for granted once they found them. Those were the true fools, the ones who did not recognize the gift they had been granted and thus were willing to throw it away for momentary thrills.

“Jean?”

“Mmm?”

“You are restless tonight,” Javert said. 

Valjean’s hand halted its idle journey, fingers freezing in the middle of the aimless pattern they were drawing through the hair on Javert’s belly and chest. 

So he’d been caught out. Not a surprise that he could get away with so little when his lover had dedicated as much effort to learning to read him as he had. If they had never found each other as soulmates, such a skill might have been maddening. As it was, it was only occasionally inconvenient.

He brushed a quick kiss to the back of Javert’s neck. “I apologize for causing you distraction. I know your time here grows short.”

“What troubles you?” Javert pressed, not satisfied with Valjean’s attempt to avoid discussing the reason for his restlessness.

Ah, well. Perhaps it was for the best that Valjean learn to share of himself as lovers do, if he was to be half of a whole, even if it meant breaking long-held habits. 

He let out a long sigh, his breath stirring the loose strands of Javert’s hair. 

He was unsure what had become of Javert’s ribbon in the midst of their coupling, and he was new enough at losing himself in such things to still find it a bit embarrassing. It was a comfort to know Javert did not mind it at all, though. On the contrary, he welcomed any moment when Valjean allowed himself to let go and find pleasure in him. He reveled in each lingering mark pressed deep into the flesh at his waist by Valjean’s fingers, or the tight grip of his hand wound into his hair, or the scraping of teeth over his shoulder or neck.

Just this evening, Javert had been more than happy to encourage Valjean to take him bent over the end of the chaise in front of the fireplace, with little disrobing between them. Valjean found more satisfaction in the act than he had expected to, and that also pleased Javert.

The euphoria of it could only last so long before Valjean’s pesky, overwrought thoughts returned, however. Which brought him to this moment, and it was clear he could not continue contemplating the wishes swirling in his heart without explaining to Javert just what those wishes were. It was only fair, as they involved Javert near to as much as himself.

“The day is long,” he said, “and there is much my mind returns to whenever I remain unoccupied for a time.” 

“And this is related to your business, or to the town?”

“It is related to something of a more personal nature.” Before Valjean could even begin to elaborate, he felt the length of Javert’s body tense in his arms. “Do not fret—it is nothing dire. I might, however, see fit to ask your opinion on some property or other in the coming weeks.”

Javert clutched almost reflexively at the hand that had settled on his chest. “You are serious about purchasing a home, then?”

“The more I consider it, the more I believe I am. I fail to see any true downsides in it. I grow restless, as you say. That we can’t afford the risk to come and go as we please wears at my patience. It would do us good to regain the ability to do so.” 

Javert made an odd noise in his throat, and Valjean thought he could well enough guess at the cause. 

“Please—it is not a decision meant to put pressure on you, I assure you of that. Regardless of whether or not you ever chose to come live with me, surely it would lessen the toll on our nerves to have fewer busybodies around us on nights like this one.”

“I don’t object to increasing our chance at privacy as a concept. I agree, that could only be a positive change for us.”

“What is your reticence, then?”

Javert fell silent for a long moment, and when he spoke again, his voice was forlorn. “There is no way for me to view myself to be worth this sort of upheaval.”  

“Worth? Upheaval? Javert, what on Earth…?”

It was then that Javert shifted so he could turn to face Valjean. He laid his hand on the side of Valjean’s face and, with what felt like genuine struggle, dragged his gaze down to meet Valjean’s from where it had settled at his hairline.

“No one has ever moved mountains for me as you are proposing. No one would dare or deign to try,” Javert swore. “There is no part of me worthy of such an effort—yours or anyone else’s.”

Valjean felt a deep pang at Javert’s words, perhaps even more at the sense of surety in them.

“Don’t say such things. You are as worthy of peace and happiness as any man.” 

Valjean mirrored Javert’s gesture, laying his own hand on the side of Javert’s face, drawing his thumb over his whiskered cheek. Javert leaned into his touch, pressing close despite the haunted look upon his face. 

“And this home I hope for, well… I save myself as much trouble with it as I save you, if not more so. After all, despite what our fellow citizens may think, my character is by far the more impeachable between the two of us.”

Javert’s brows furrowed deeply. “Why slander yourself so?”

“You know that it is true.”

A moment passed, heavy with the burden of reality, where Javert could not find words to respond. 

“I do not want it to be true,” he said eventually, “and that disproves your assertion in itself.”

“How do you mean?”

“If I cannot abide by the idea that I am, under the law, the better man between us, I am unfit to be so on the basis of that alone.”

“Javert…”

“A police inspector with a faulty compass guiding his steps—what use is he?”

“What use…? You have done good work here!”

“Have I?” Javert asked.

There was a seriousness in his tone that worried Valjean. How could he not see the treachery he had already untangled from beneath their very noses? How could the aid he had rendered not factor into his sense of accomplishment?

“But the foreman—! Those factory girls would not be so eager to shower you with gifts and attention if you had not brought positive change to their lives. And that does not even touch upon the good you have wrought for Fantine and Cosette—”

“I doubt, you know,” Javert interrupted, pained. “More than I ever have in my life. I doubt the righteousness of the path I chose so long ago. I doubt the choices I make now, the judgements that are required of me everyday. I doubt my judgement in many things.”  

Valjean felt as though he had plunged beneath icy waters, his stomach had sunk so far so quickly. “Do you… Do you doubt me as well?”

“No. No, you are a respite from all this. You I cannot doubt. I think that is where my problem lies. You I am sure of, and if what I know of you is true and right as I know it to be, it must mean that I am the one who has been wrong. I have, up until meeting you again, devoted the whole of my life to something flawed.”

“Javert, everything is flawed. Everyone is flawed—myself more than most.”

“That is not so. You are not more flawed than most.” He gave a queer scoff of a laugh. “That is absurd. Most men do not spend half as much time atoning for their flaws as you do, for flaws which run much deeper than yours.”

Javert sat up then, and Valjean could feel his eyes tracing the marks on his body as surely as he had felt his fingers do the same earlier when they had finally made it to the bed and stripped each other bare.

“I myself hardly even know where to start to atone for what damage I might have caused. In choosing the path that I chose, I never meant to destroy, I meant to protect—and somehow, that means I am meant to protect the world from a man such as you? There is no way to reconcile such a contradiction. It benefits no one, and hurts many. I am complicit in the scars that mark your skin.”

“Javert, you were barely a boy of sixteen when I was jailed. You are not responsible for—”

“You know very well you are taking what I’ve said too literally. I may not have personally held the whip, but I drew blood all the same,” Javert said, exasperated, though whether it was more directed at Valjean or at himself Valjean could not say. “I have gotten everything backwards. When we met again, I thought myself compromised due to being tied to a convict. I consider myself compromised now by knowing a convict can change so thoroughly and still everyday creating more of them. I was wrong about you—I know the man you were and the man you have rebuilt yourself to be. I must have been wrong about others, too.”

Valjean was at a loss at how to ease Javert’s mind. The other man, it appeared, was prone to tangents such as these when faced with his own capacity for error or limitations. Left to his own devices, uncertainty festered and suggested inadequacy in a manner which Valjean was familiar, but in general Valjean tried to take such feelings and direct them towards improving upon his shortcomings wherever possible. To Javert, even the concept of questioning himself seemed frightening.

“We cannot unwrite the past,” he said. “Lord knows if anyone could do so, I would have tried. The only recourse is to strive to do better in the future. That is all that has rebuilt the wretch I was into the man I am today—striving to do and be better than before.”

“Yes, but how do I know what is better?” Javert said. “I cannot trust myself as I trusted the law. I am too fallible on my own.”

“But the law, too, is fallible. It always has been so, even if you did not see it, or else you would not face the dilemma you now face,” Valjean said. “Anything created by the hands of man is fallible. That is why we so long for the wisdom and mercy of the Divine.”

“I have never longed for such a thing. I have held to the teachings, for they provide a guide as the law does, but I do not feel the conviction as others do. That you do. The weight of my doubts comes not from the fear of failing God, or worry for my eternal soul.” 

“What is the cause of your fear, then?”

A beat passed in silence, and then, “It is the fear of failing you.”

“Javert… You want to speak of worth?” Valjean shook his head, incredulous. “I don’t deserve such fealty. I cannot be in chains one day and on a pedestal the next. I am imperfect as any man.”

Javert darted in and pressed a kiss to Valjean’s lips. “It matters not that you are imperfect if you are perfect to me.”

“Can that not be true of you as well?”

The question finally gave Javert pause. He pulled back again, his face slack with a sort of shocked wonder. It was more than obvious he had never considered he could be perfected in Valjean’s eyes alone, that it might be enough to be seen whole and understood and accepted by even one other person.

Valjean reached out and rested his hand atop Javert’s where it lay worrying the bed linen. “Have I not said you are a blessing to me?”

“You have said as much before,” he said, his eyes on Valjean’s hand covering his.

“Well, I was quite serious when I did. You are a blessing—the first person besides a saintly man of God to show me love since I committed my tragic error. The love the Bishop showed me made me anew. Yours does the same, every day that I feel it. If you would allow yourself to feel mine—”

“I do. I feel it. I… Every day, Jean. Every day, I feel it.”

“You are worthy of my love, if I am worthy of yours. There is nothing inherent in either of us to make us better or worse than any man.”

Javert nodded, and then turned his hand and gripped Valjean’s, bringing it to his mouth. He traced his lips along the lines on his palm, writing fortunes into the skin as his mother might once have read them. 

“I must away,” he said, quiet and thick, “or neither of us will be rested come morning.”

Valjean was even less happy with the prospect of Javert leaving than he had been before, but if his hopes were realized, these partings need not happen as often, or ever if they were truly lucky. If there was any skill he had managed to cultivate over these long years alone, it was patience. He could wait.

Javert moved to sit on the edge of the bed, glancing tiredly around in search of his discarded clothing. Catching sight of his trousers, he went to retrieve them. 

Valjean bit his lip as he watched Javert bend to pick up the garment and shake the fabric so it was turned the right way out.

“You are certain you cannot spend the night?” he asked, one last time for good measure.

“If we had not been seen patrolling together, I might be willing to chance it, but alas…”

“That is unfortunate, for I would love to have you again come morning.”

The sentence stopped Javert cold, a single trouser leg pulled up to the knee. His prick, once sated, now twitched a bit in interest, nestled against the dark hair at his groin.

Javert swallowed convulsively, his eyes still wide in surprise. “Perhaps you are still as wicked as you sometimes think yourself to be,” he said, in a low, teasing voice, “tempting me so.”

“How wicked could I be, desiring such an upright man of the law?” Valjean countered. 

Javert raked his gaze over Valjean’s body, only partially obscured by the bed linen. 

“In seriousness—you have awakened a hunger in me I had no idea I was capable of experiencing,” Valjean explained. “I had never felt it before you.”

Hastily, Javert donned his trousers fully, though he let them hang loose on his hips while he leant down to brace himself over Valjean on the mattress. “I am grateful I am able to provide you with the sustenance you so require,” he said, his voice now near to a growl, and then he took Valjean’s mouth, deep and searching.

While their lips clashed, Valjean slipped his hand beneath the fabric of Javert’s trousers; Javert was still mostly soft, but he groaned into Valjean’s mouth and gave a mindless roll of his hips when his hand closed around him. He pulled back just enough to break the kiss, breathing hard.

“I really must go. Forgive me,” he said against his lips.

“There is nothing to forgive. This is not a problem of your making, Javert.”

“I know. It frustrates me that it is not within my power to give you whatever it is you wish for.”

“Please do not try to take burdens upon your shoulders beyond what falls to you.”

“You are one to talk of carrying undue burdens.”

Valjean let out a chuckle. “I suppose you are correct.”

Another mostly uneventful week passed in the well-run town of Montreuil-sur-Mer under the compassionate care of one M. Madeleine and the diligent protection of one Inspector Javert. The week was not without incident, as weeks rarely are, but the conflicts and squabbles were so trivial, the thievery so petty, the violence so easily quashed, it almost did not warrant much note at all. It would be easy to describe the time as boring, even beneath Javert’s considerable capacity as a man of the law, but it would undersell the unease within his mind to do so.

Another week of second guessing his own judgement weighed heavily on Javert, even while he retained the full confidence of the mayor. But it was no surprise he retained the mayor’s confidence. If they were any two other men, perhaps he would be able to take Valjean’s good opinion of him at face value. However, for Javert, it was near impossible to allow himself to accept that Valjean’s confidence in him was not primarily a biased opinion, and thus unearned. The idea that perhaps instead of being overly subjective due to their relationship outside of work, Valjean might be viewing Javert’s capabilities from a more objective position than he himself could manage was a foreign one. 

Another week of finding a measure of comfort in the stolen moments in the oasis of Valjean’s presence assuaged at least some of Javert’s concerns, but not all of them. Valjean must have something like an infinite well from which he drew his patience as he held Javert’s hand, both literally and metaphorically, while Javert navigated the storm in his soul. But if Javert could still find comfort, if he could still crave the refuge of Valjean’s love, then there was still hope that he would find his way eventually. 

Valjean’s quiet words of wisdom accompanied Javert as he made his rounds whether the man accompanied him in the flesh or not. They encouraged him to contemplate, as he never had before, the circumstances surrounding the act of breaking a law, rather than merely whether or not a law had been broken. He had never been moved to leniency by such details in the past, but his reverence for Valjean demanded he at least consider his perspective on the matter.


What harm has been caused? Can that harm be rectified, or mitigated short of fines or imprisonment? Is there genuine remorse?


Those, at least, were simple enough questions to answer, something of a framework to hold his judgement up against to check for unnecessary unfairness or cruelty. Javert didn’t know if it would be enough to carry him through this maelstrom, but it was enough to guide his path for now. Justice was not as clear-cut as he believed it to be, particularly when called to temper it with mercy.

Of course a man raised without being taught or shown mercy struggled at times to recognize it at all, let alone understand when to proffer it. Learning it almost by rote later in life posed challenges, but Javert was willing to try.

For Valjean’s sake, if no one else’s.

There were still sob stories Javert encountered that did not ring true to him by any means, some that wouldn’t have sounded out of place on the lips of people like those odious Thénardiers. But there were also now stories that twinged Javert’s fledgling empathy as if rather than a stranger at his feet, it was a young and desperate Valjean pleading for mercy through devastated tears. 

Any one of these poor wretches could be a person like Valjean, and any misstep on Javert’s part could send them down a path not unlike his… and yet somehow that was justice? How did anyone move blithely through life when there was such uncertainty to behold in the world? How did anyone continue to function with such a weight on their conscience?

It did not sit well with Javert to be aware of all he was now aware of and still know beyond a shadow of a doubt if he had been the one who arrested Valjean so long ago, such pleading would not have moved him an inch. He would have locked Valjean away without even losing a moment of sleep over the decision, condemning him to the years of agony that transformed him into a desperate beast of a man. He knew it, and the knowledge pained him.

Valjean could excuse Javert’s culpability all he liked, but his technical innocence in the origins of Valjean’s plight did little to placate Javert. It felt as if there were splinters in his chest from the pounding of his wooden heart, driven deeper into the meat of his flesh each and every day.

“You may not trust yourself, Javert, but I trust you,” Valjean would say when Javert relayed his reservations regarding another incident in his report. 

Jean Valjean trusted Inspector Javert—what a wonder that was! And oh, what little Javert had done to earn said trust… Hardly anything at all, other than clinging fiercely to Valjean in his bed while he nursed the ache his heart had earned battling with his brain. 

Despite his turmoil, it meant something to Javert that Valjean did not blame him for the past. It would have meant something if he had only forgiven him for it, but Valjean’s lack of blame meant far more than that to Javert. It was a precious thing for the other man to respect him for his dedication to his duty without holding said duty against him, despite finding himself on the wrong side of it for decades. 

Valjean was still, even now, on the razor’s edge of Javert’s duty, of course—if anyone but Javert knew who he once was, or even if Javert were slightly less besotted with him… 

Javert shook himself. It was a danger he did not enjoy thinking about, a real danger—though he doubted there were many who could identify Valjean to challenge his freedom. He doubted there were many who studied him as Javert had; in fact, he knew as much, as none of his peers had dedicated near as much effort to tracking Valjean as Javert had, even when he had freshly broken his parole. 

Valjean was simply not a high priority to many, because in comparison to other potentially dangerous men, those more prone to unprovoked violence took precedence over a man who did everything in his power to disappear from notice as soon as he was able. 

Valjean had been set to the side quickly by everyone except Javert once his trail grew cold. Javert had once resented that decision, inasmuch as he ever could have resented a decision handed down from above. Now he wished he could turn back the clock and quench the flames of his zeal, to hasten the end of the search for Valjean without his own enthusiasm fanning it.

He vowed he would put Valjean in danger no longer. He had done so for far too long without batting an eye over it, and if he spent the remainder of his life working towards atoning for that, he hoped it would be enough.

And so Javert was glad to see the end of this long and trying week, the end of this day even more, and to again tread the familiar cobblestones that lined the streets as he meandered his way along the path that would lead him to Valjean’s rooms.

Javert could not see himself in his own rooms for hours tonight, lying in bed alone waiting for sleep to take him. His turbulent thoughts would not even lately allow him the concentration needed for the slog of reading to improve himself. He only hoped Valjean would not be so exhausted from his day as to be unable to receive his company. Because that was all that Javert required of him—his company. He would be quite satisfied if they did nothing more than spend a few silent hours together in the same space away from prying eyes and, if Valjean felt especially generous, in each other’s arms.

Javert really and truly did not know how he survived before he knew the blessing of the tenderness of Valjean’s touch. It took little time for the tension in his chest to loosen whenever Valjean’s sturdy arms wrapped around his body, when such a feeling would have often stayed with him for hours at a time throughout his life. In Valjean’s arms, his troubled thoughts drifted off into the distance, far enough away that they no longer occupied the whole of his mind. 

Valjean had been wise to guess that men like the two of them should benefit from tenderness, even when he had experienced so little of it personally. Javert only hoped his own touch afforded Valjean even a fraction of the comfort and solace he gained from his. Given his druthers, they would never be parted, and one day he could die a happy man wrapped in Valjean’s love, happy as he never expected to be at the end of his life.

Javert’s path took him past the factory at the end of the workday, which gave him the opportunity to see if Valjean had perhaps returned there after his trip to the countryside, but the foreman on duty let him know he had not seen him since he set out after Javert’s report that morning.

Javert thanked the man, and before he set off again towards Valjean’s rooms, a familiar voice called out after him.

“Inspector! Inspector Javert, may I have a word?”

A familiar voice, yes—that of a factory girl, but thankfully not one of the factory girls who had developed a fancy for dubiously appealing police inspectors.

“Fantine. I trust you and Cosette are in good health?”

“Yes, Inspector, thank you. And you have also been well?”

“As well as ever.”

“You have already given Monsieur le Maire your report for the week, monsieur?”

“I have, very early this morning.”

“Hmm. That’s unfortunate. I hoped I would have caught you beforehand,” she said. “Would I be able to arrange to speak with M. Madeleine soon? There is a matter I must discuss with him with some urgency.”

Javert was unsure how he felt about Fantine’s easy assumption that he was an appropriate person to approach to pass a message on to Valjean. Not even an appropriate person—the obvious authority in the matter. As if such a thing would logically fall into his responsibilities. 

If he were inclined to take offense, he could easily take it to mean she saw him as little more than Valjean’s secretary… but he knew that was not the case. No, it was far more likely her assumption came from her firsthand knowledge of their relationship out of the public eye. Posing a question to him in Valjean’s stead as if the two men were close confidants… or even perhaps still closer than that.

“I am sure M. Madeleine would be more than willing to speak with you without first having to go through me.”

Fantine wrung her hands in her apron as they walked together. “That may be true, but I fear I have already gone outside the bounds of decency approaching him at his home as I have before.”

“Such things matters little to him. Do not let his position as mayor intimidate you—he is still your boss at the factory, you have the right to speak with him directly.”

“But this is not about work. It feels an imposition to approach him so—”

“Fantine. He would not mind it,” he insisted. “Madeleine only accepted the appointment as mayor reluctantly, he did not seek the prestige or power of it. He has done a job of convincing me I need not stand on ceremony when approaching him in our private lives, I am sure he would extend the same courtesy to you. The three of us do not come from wealth nor privilege, even if he has lately attained it.”

“You make a good point, I suppose. I know little of his background outside of the common speculation, but even that tends to paint him as a working man who built himself from nothing.”

“I believe he would be more content if more people would remember that.”

“I will have to keep all of this in mind for the future, Inspector… However, I must still ask if you might please accompany me when I call on him? After work hours, it will not appear proper, even if M. Madeleine would not turn me away.”

“Tonight?”

“If it is not much trouble, sooner is better than later.”

Javert glanced around surreptitiously to assure they were a good distance from anyone else. “I am sure you have heard tell of it as it is unfortunately difficult to avoid,” he said, his voice quiet, “but there are plenty in the town who assume something improper between the mayor and myself as well. I doubt if my presence will assure many of the propriety of the meeting.”

“Oh. Well. That does not worry me, Inspector. I doubt if the majority would decide all three of us are… that is to say…”

Javert nearly winced outright at the implication and prayed his face would not show—by flush or expression—how thoughts of such a misconception flustered him. “I should hope not! They have far too little with which to occupy themselves if that is where their minds wander.”

“I agree. I would not trouble you with this at all, but it is only that there are a good number who believe M. Madeleine has revealed his obligation to Cosette in helping me to fetch her. I would much prefer not to offer fuel for the fire in appearing on his doorstep yet again by myself.”

Javert let out a sigh. “M. Madeleine had some business near to the countryside this afternoon. I am unsure if he has yet returned.”

“Oh,” she said, still worrying her apron.

“I will accompany you regardless,” he said with a bow, and Fantine’s face, which had been pinched with stress, relaxed so thoroughly that Javert surprised himself by feeling similar relief.

As it turned out, Valjean had just been delivered at his own doorstep by the carriage he had hired after his meeting with Javert that morning when Javert and Fantine arrived at his home. Javert said a silent prayer of thanks, for it meant that Fantine could bring her concerns to Valjean right away and he, Javert, would be spared the inexorable suspense that waiting for Valjean’s return from the countryside would have brought with it.

“Inspector! Fantine!” Valjean called out as soon as he noticed them—a jolly greeting, one Javert could see melt the fatigue of a long day away from his countenance in an instant. “What a pleasant surprise! What brings the two of you here together? Nothing grave is amiss, I hope? Cosette is well?”

“Cosette is well, monsieur, yes. However, I am afraid there is indeed something amiss,” Fantine said, her head bowed, “though it is not yet imminently dire. I asked Inspector Javert if you may perhaps have a few moments of time to spare…?”

“Of course I have a few moments to spare for you—come in, then, come in!” Valjean held the door open so Javert and Fantine would precede him into his rooms. “Would you stay for supper, both of you? I meant to send a message to ask as much of you, Javert, but as you are here already…?”

“I have no other obligations at present,” Javert agreed. As if by second nature, he helped Valjean out of his heavy coat and set about hanging it up. His familiarity with this small ritual was evident as Fantine watched him curiously while Valjean offered to take her coat as well, but she demurred, as did Javert. 

The trio made small talk inasmuch as any of them liked to do so while Valjean arranged to serve their meal from the pot set aside for him by his housekeeper. Fantine would perhaps have spoken more, and more freely, if she did not already have so much on her mind. As it was, her distraction and worry kept her subdued.

Places set at the table and seats taken, they bowed their heads as Valjean said a short prayer over the food and all three crossed themselves before finally beginning to eat.

“Now,” Valjean said, “what is it that is amiss, Fantine?”

“I beg your pardon for bringing my woes to you yet again, Monsieur le Maire. I have found myself in the unfortunate position in which I must find new lodgings for myself and Cosette, with some haste. My landlord has informed me I will not be able to maintain my current apartment beyond the end of this month.”

Valjean frowned. “Has your landlord increased his fees greatly beyond what you earn at the factory?”

“Oh, no, you pay us fairly, monsieur, and I have not been late with payment either. The truth of the matter is, even if I were to offer to pay him a hefty sum more for his trouble, my landlord does not wish to house an extra tenant, especially a child. The only reason I have yet to be turned out is because turning out a child on such short notice would reflect poorly on his reputation.”

A sound of sympathy from Valjean brought with it a softening of Fantine’s tense posture.

“This is quite the hardship you now face, Fantine,” he said, solemn. “I am sorry it has fallen to you, and I am sorry your landlord has not chosen the narrow path with regards to this… smallest of inconveniences.”

“I thank you for your compassion, Monsieur le Maire, but you need not apologize for this man. In a way, I even understand his position, because when he agreed to offer me lodging, he had no idea I would not be alone in the apartment forever; I hardly dreamed of how long it would take for Cosette to ever join me here myself until your generosity made it possible. 

“But it is also true that Cosette is not an imposition beyond her unforeseen appearance! She is not a problem child by any means. She is not destructive, nor noisy. She is meek, perhaps too much so. I worry what those awful people put her through for so long. She will not tell me all of it, I am sure, and I blanch when I think of the reasons she might withhold it from me.”

Valjean’s brows drew together in concern, but he did not interrupt. Javert tamped down his own reaction to Fantine’s dread. He understood the urgency with which they had dealt with the Thénardiers, of course, for the quicker Cosette was free of them, the better… but that did not mean he would not find great satisfaction in ensuring those swindlers faced justice for the crimes they had no doubt committed. That was not the topic of the day, however, and there were much more pressing problems which needed solving.

“Regardless,” Fantine said, “there is nothing I can say to my landlord to sway him from his decision, so I must seek lodging elsewhere. Would you know of a place that might be willing to take us? I have found nothing but dead ends as soon as it becomes known I have a child but no husband. I thought it possible you have more insight than I in where to look and that is why I am here.”

Valjean sat back in his seat and regarded Fantine with a thoughtful expression on his august face. It was easy to grasp just why he had risen to the position that he had, with no one but Javert the wiser as to his origins. Who would doubt the noble intentions of so distinguished a man?

For someone as familiar with Valjean as Javert, it was plain as day to see the plotting behind Valjean’s eyes at the confluence of events now laid out before them. He could even guess at the conviction that would settle into Valjean’s heart at the possibility of the hand of Providence at work, directing their paths. Even Javert had to admit to the serendipity of the timing—surely it had not escaped Valjean. 

His suspicions were confirmed soon enough when Valjean spoke again.

“You are not aware of this, Fantine, but I have lately thought to take a modest house farther from the town center, for the peace of it.” 

Fantine’s brows furrowed. “Monsieur…?”

Valjean turned to Javert. “I had hoped to consult with you tonight, Inspector, about the merits of one particular property over another, as a man of good judgment. There is some paperwork related to the properties I visited today in my rucksack hanging by the door, if you would not mind fetching it.”

Javert was already on his feet before Valjean could finish his request. A few quick strides found him at the door, and it was simple enough to retrieve what Valjean had asked for.

“This is the one you mentioned to me this morning, I gather?” he asked, sifting through the papers.

“Yes. As you see, it is set apart quite a bit from the nearest homes with a nice hedged garden where I could tend to any plants my heart desires. I have so missed the tranquility of cultivating a healthy garden, I feel it will do wonders for my nerves.”

“Perhaps it is the better choice, then, than the smaller property, despite the cost.”

“It might well be,” he agreed. “I know how taxing police work can be, Inspector. Any garden of mine would be available for your use if you should wish me to introduce you to the practice.”

Javert felt his throat tighten unexpectedly at Valjean’s offer in spite of Fantine’s presence. He swallowed through the choking restriction of emotion and said, as steadily as possible, “I have not had the time nor the desire to learn such things up until now, M. Madeleine, but if you find benefit in it, perhaps my avoidance has been hasty.”

“Messieurs?” Fantine prompted, still at a loss as to the reason for the digression.

“Come here for a moment and look this over, Fantine,” Valjean said, gesturing that she should join them across the table. 

Dutifully, she glanced at the sketch of the house and lot, but her lips were turned down in a confused frown. “It is a fine property, to be sure, Monsieur le Maire. Very spacious, as you say.”

“Mmm, it seems an indulgence to seek a house so large as an unmarried man of my age, I realize, but perhaps it could serve a dual purpose, considering your new difficulties?” 

“I am unsure if I understand.”

Javert cleared his throat. “I believe M. Madeleine is suggesting that he would offer you lodgings personally as a solution to your dilemma,” he said; Fantine’s eyes widened in disbelief.

“Indeed, Inspector, that is what I am suggesting,” said Valjean. “I would be far out of my depths with this much more space to look after on my own, so I would of course be in need of a full time housekeeper with the vigor required to keep up with it. I could not ask such an added responsibility of my current housekeeper, as the distance would hinder her in her duty to family. The position is yours, Fantine, if you should like to accept it.”

Fantine’s mouth worked wordlessly for a moment before she gathered herself and said, “I have little of the necessary experience to run any household, monsieur, let alone the experience necessary to serve the mayor.”

“Whichever skills you have not yet honed I am sure you will learn with time, though I have no need nor expectation of perfection, now or ever, truth be told. You would have more freedom in my personal employ than you have at the factory, and there would be ample room for Cosette to grow and thrive in a country house.”

“Monsieur le Maire… I can hardly believe my ears. Your heart must be boundless in its generosity. You would truly do such a thing for me? For us?”

“It is far more selfish than all that, Fantine. I value my privacy, as you no doubt have gathered, and in light of some of the… changes in my life in recent months, I find myself longing to regain some of what I have lost due to the increased scrutiny that comes with the mayorship. Amongst other things.” 

Briefly, Valjean met Javert’s eye across the table, as if, try as he might, he could not fully restrain himself from the impulse. 

“To many, I remain an intriguing enigma which requires solving, but you have been privy to enough of my life in private without a word of it reaching me again in gossip, so I find I already trust in your discretion. That is far more important to me than a decade of experience.”

“I thank you, monsieur, for your trust, but discretion is the absolute least I can offer you after what you have done for Cosette and myself. I would not dream of sharing idle gossip about your private matters. I am subject to enough of it myself and the experience is unpleasant to say the least—even, possibly, dangerous at times.”

Javert felt the danger Fantine spoke of keenly in the accusatory stares shot his way on occasion by suspicious townspeople, especially when Valjean chose to patrol at his side late in the night, perhaps a shade too close together for mayor and inspector. 

The privacy of being outside the town center would come with having more leeway regarding their comings and goings—with the right choice of home, perhaps Javert would never again have to worry whether someone had noticed him arrive at Valjean’s residence in the evening and not leave again until it was time for his shift the next morning.

Javert should not allow himself the headiness of anticipation, but anticipate he did nonetheless. 

“Speaking of gossip, however…” Fantine began, and then fell silent for a moment to find the most delicate way to word her remark. “You realize if Cosette and I come to live with you, it will do little to dispel the rumors that Cosette is yours, monsieur. In fact, it will likely fan the flames more than anything else has done, as up until now you have not spent more time with Cosette than with any other child you encounter in the town.”

Valjean neatened his stack of papers in a huff. “I care not for rumors, Fantine. It is not my fault people see corruption at every turn,” he grumbled. “God in Heaven, between this and all of the other whisperings around town, the citizens must think me Casanova—which is an absurd imagination on its face! I am not suave nor debonair, and anyone who thinks me so is ridiculous. Especially in regards to this subject, given the fact that it would’ve been more akin to a virgin birth at the time of Cosette’s conception, since it would still be years yet before I even… erm. That is to say…”

Valjean trailed off, his face flushing quite red. Javert fought to quell the way his lips meant to curve into a smile, amusement and no small amount of smugness battling for control of his expression. That he had been the first—and only!—one Valjean had found worthy to give himself to would never cease to amaze him. That he continued to share himself was a gift to which no other could compare.

Still, Valjean had given him a small measure of grief over an uncomfortable misunderstanding just last week, and Javert was only human, after all.

“Being misread rubs one the wrong way, does it not?”

Valjean gave another flustered huff, and Javert chuckled, reaching out to cover Valjean’s hand on the table and give it a quick squeeze in solidarity. Valjean turned his hand over and returned the gesture before he allowed Javert to withdraw his hand. 

It was easily the most obvious liberty either of them had taken with each other in plain view of anyone else; Fantine had the good grace to look away. Perhaps there was nothing improper between the inspector and the mayor, but there was something between them, and she had to know it by now. She might have even guessed at the reason for its sudden and intense appearance, given the topic of discussion on the long carriage ride to Montfermeil. 

Their situation was not so rare that it would not occur to one to consider as a possibility, though Javert grieved the more common tendency of the public to ensure the most sordid explanation was the most discussed.

Soulmates could be understood. Soulmates could be excused. Scandal, however, was far more interesting a prospect.

“Forgive me, messieurs,” Fantine said, bashful. “I feel a bit as if I am intruding upon a shared joke the origins of which I have not been made privy to.”

Javert caught Valjean’s eye and nodded. “Go on, then. You may explain if you must. I doubt if she is completely unaware.”

Javert felt the warmth of Valjean’s affection for the long moment it took the other man to turn his attention towards Fantine. 

“Fantine, you may have noticed some of your coworkers at the factory have taken a fancy towards their gallant police inspector—”

“Gallant!” Javert exclaimed. “Monsieur le Maire, you are worse than they are.”

“I am sorry, Inspector,” Valjean said, reaching to grip Javert’s shoulder, a mollifying touch. “It is only because I enjoy seeing others appreciate you as I do that I emphasize their regard.”

“Now that you mention as much,” Fantine said, “I have indeed borne witness to a fair few of these girls endeavoring to attract your attention, monsieur.”

Javert shook his head. “The demure ones I can tolerate, the bold can take their regard elsewhere.”

“I think Inspector Javert is as shy as I am, underneath it all.”

“Shy—that makes it sound so innocuous. I’ve not been afforded the grace to be shy,” Javert said, not without regret. “I am standoffish at best, in others’ eyes. I cannot smile my way out of conversation like some people can manage.” 

“Even if you could, in this instance smiling more would likely only encourage the ones who wish to seek your hand in marriage,” said Valjean.

“Bah! It seems as though no matter what I do, I cannot win.”

Fantine looked as if she were trying very hard not to laugh at Javert’s expense, an attempt he could only appreciate. “I confess before I came to be better acquainted with the two of you, I had shared in the others’ surprise that such fine men as yourselves were yet unmarried.”

“I am not the sort to seek marriage,” Javert asserted, holding up a hand to wave off even the thought of it. Fantine’s eyebrows rose at the sound of his vehemence; the corners of Valjean’s lips rose for the same reason.

“Neither, as you might have surmised, am I. All the better for it, really. Any wife of mine would surely find me lacking.”

“I hardly think so! Honorable, upright men are easy to admire. Anyone would be lucky to have you—either of you.”

Valjean shook his head. “You flatter us, I think, Fantine. Even if that were true, I highly doubt any woman would tolerate me for long—and rightly so. And since I have never sought such a connection, I don’t count it as a loss.”

“Nor do I,” Javert said. “We crotchety old bachelors are better suited to keeping our own company in any case. No reason to burden the fairer sex with our boorish ways.”