Title: let justice be done though the heavens fall
Work ID: 44513065
Author: wolverton
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: POV Outsider, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Religious Guilt, Enemies to Lovers, Enemies to Friends, Slow Burn, Getting to Know Each Other, Character Study, Catholicism, Other Additional Tags to Be Added
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 2/?

Summary:
The year is 1823, and it has altogether been eight years since the man now known as Monsieur Madeleine has arrived to Montreuil-sur-Mer; four since the arrival of Inspector Javert. Many residents of this small provincial town have taken notice of the inexplicable tension present between the two men—which precisely made it all the more inexplicable to witness Monsieur Madeleine (having in the meantime become Monsieur le maire) and Monsieur l'inspecteur voluntarily accompanying one another on their daily commutes to work.

Observed especially by Sister Perpetue, a woman performing the services of a nurse in the infirmary, the nun is all too eager to run her own theories regarding their unlikely companionship. Whether the mayor and his right hand have truly developed a good rapport, or whether there are other vested interests present—remains to be seen.


(Or: Chapmanthieu is never apprehended and wrongly accused, causing Jean Valjean to lack any incentive to turn himself in during the trial at Arras.)

Work text:

A gentle, diffused light of a cloudy morning seeped into the room, streaking its wooden floor in gold and orange tones as it breached the barrier that were shutters. A faint mewl of a sick woman reached the ears of Sister Simplice, who set aside the washcloth that she had intended to use to dust the shelves as to attend her patient posthaste. Sister Perpetue allowed herself a single private eyeroll; though the woman Fantine’s condition was remarkably bad and on a steep decline at that, she herself didn’t suppose all must be dropped in favor of coddling a patient; especially not her kind, for God did not look kindly upon such women. Yes, Sister Simplice surely harbored an unfitting measure of empathy—which, it could be argued, bordered on enablement.

Sister Perpetue stole a glance at the two of them, the woman Fantine in bed who was at this very moment being spoken to by the other nun, her tone hushed and voice comforting. Sister Perpetue couldn’t decipher much of the exchange, at least not from the nun’s side of things; and though Fantine’s voice was faint and raspy, and though her mouth could hardly form a proper sentence from the near-constant delirium of her mind, a handful of words could be told apart from the rest; and perhaps only due to the frequency at which they were spoken in this very room. The words in question were as follows: the mayor, my daughter, Cosette, and ‘bring her.’

Letting out a heavy sigh, Sister Perpetue parted the shutters, allowing the room to be bathed entirely in the morning light. She lifted herself up onto the very tips of her toes, for she was short, and reached up as to unlatch the windows open, too. The air in the room had gone stale and carried the distinct reek of illness, and though these early mornings still brought a chill, the alternative was less appealing. Sister Perpetue then quit the room alone, Sister Simplice seeming content to humor the poor, delirious creature.

Performing the services of a nurse in the infirmary could be a grueling task even on the best of days (and no mention will here be made of the worst); how Sister Simplice hadn’t yet come to her own conclusion that, to put it mildly, her supply of empathy and concern was a finite resource that should be used sparingly—well, Sister Perpetue could not explain that to herself. No matter. Their differing approaches were perhaps an alright thing; a fine balance, a fine compliment of one another.

She grabbed a broom by its wooden handle on her way to the front door, not halting her step nor looking at or for the tool in question; the action had been performed by her in so many mornings that it had become a question of muscle memory—and, for she had the mind to always put things back in their rightful place posterior to their use, the broom was always waiting for her in the corner of the entryway, concealed but not hidden behind a tall, luscious plant. Sister Perpetue reached down the neckhole of her habit, bringing out a brass key which dangled at the end of a thin metal chain. It had gotten twisted around the rosary that she had not taken off in many years (believed to have been given to her by a late relative, though we couldn’t say with any certainty any longer), and the nun grunted and grumbled for as long as it took to untangle them, which is to say, a handful of moments.

Finally having unlocked the heavy wooden doors, she flung them open (with a surprising force for a person of her calling and her size.) She stepped out past the threshold, nearly finding herself in the streets. The infirmary had little in the ways of a front porch, much like most of the townhouses lining the cobbled road that stretched uninterrupted from one end of the town to the other; indeed, this was the Main Street, named simply yet aptly. All other streets and roads coalesced precisely along the length of it, the flow of traffic everywhere else always depending upon the flow of traffic on the Main Street. This is why it was indeed of utmost importance that the Main Street remain unclogged and unjammed, that any roadblock or obstruction is taken care of posthaste, that no unnecessary stops take place, that no one fraternize or gather in groups. Men in uniforms, which is to say policemen, could be seen patrolling more often than not, and on occasion (and it is up to the individual to determine whether the occasion should be considered lucky or unlucky) one could see up to two or three of them without so much as turning their head. This is all to say that most citizens, including Sister Perpetue, had grown desensitized to the tall hats perched on dark-blue coats and boots with batons in their hands, when seeing them on horseback or on foot on the Main Street; so much so that their faces seemed to blend together, bleed into one another, all dark eyes with thick moustaches that you couldn’t tell apart once they’d abandon your immediate field of vision.

And that is to say, Sister Perpetue had sorely surprised herself on one such morning, a morning which had happened only but a couple of weeks ago, and was otherwise entirely ordinary and in line with every one of her mornings thus far, and every one of her mornings that would have taken place after that one; more to the point, when she had stepped out of the building, her humanly instinct had her take stock of her surroundings, look left and right and ahead of herself, too; and it was precisely ahead of herself, across the street, where she had seen a pair of people which had her privately thinking: “Monsieur le Maire and Monsieur l'inspecteur seem inordinately chatty today.”

What constituted as inordinately chatty for Monsieur le Maire and Monsieur l'inspecteur of Montreuil-sur-Mer was, in fact, not something that could be deemed as ‘inordinate’ by the strictest definition of the word, for it wasn’t—objectively speaking—excessive or outrageous in measure. In fact, anybody that had not seen the two men walk with each other before and had no other knowledge of either of their characters, might use an adjective more appropriate, such as taciturn or laconic, and—if they might dare—unfriendly (for neither of them seemed to possess particularly high spirits in one another’s company.) However, if one should bear witness to a chunk of this walk frequently—say, every morning—one would become aware of the fact that these walks normally occur in silence; the two men walk as though they walk alone, without a companion to speak of.

Thus, even so much as a single word exchanged between them could be considered inordinately chatty behavior.

As not to err too far from the matter at hand, we ought to backtrack; why had Sister Perpetue taken notice of two men that do not, in any reasonable way, differ from many of the men making much the same commute down the Main Street, businessmen and policemen alike? The answer to the question is rather simple, and had perhaps even been inferred by the reader of this text—Monsieur le Maire and Monsieur l'inspecteur shuttle past the infirmary twice each day, every morning and every evening (though Sister Perpetue only bore witness to the former, during her daily sweepings of the small strip of cobble which counted as part of the building, and thus demanded equal vigilance in upkeep.) What is less simple, complicated even, is the ‘why’ of it all. Why do these men, different in the matters of character and employment and rank, who do not appear to appreciate the arrangement, persistently accompany each other—not once, but twice a day?

Those had largely been the contents of Sister Perpetue’s thoughts on that day those weeks ago, and they made an appearance once more as the nun looked on across the street, though perhaps only differed in the ways of lacking the initial shock. It was unusual, still, to see the two of them converse; for all the world, it did not seem as though Monsieur le Maire and Monsieur l'inspecteur should be thus engaged, for they differed to such an extent in character and the values they each adhered to. Those of Montreuil-sur-Mer who did take a shine to Inspector Javert—a man so severe in both manner and attitude that he had managed to make himself unappealing to most of the populace, peasant and bourgeois alike—were by and large considered the worst of the worst—they were leeches and stains upon society only too eager to abuse the legal system in their favor, crying wolf at every turn, and most diligently polishing the cocks of the gendarmerie’s fine steeds as though it were their lives’ purpose; and only they held him high in their esteem. One such man Sister Perpetue knew to be M. Bamatabois, precisely the culprit behind that prostitute’s worsening condition. She had overheard, too, that it was precisely M. le Maire who had intervened, confining the woman to the infirmary rather than the jail—where the Inspector had resolved to deposit her. This alone illustrated the extent to which their characters stood at odds with one another—for justice oft was not executed justly, for the law and the authority which upheld it wielded their power not with a lenient hand; hereby a merciful man could never be just, while a just man could never lend himself to mercy (granting, of course, the supposition that such a man thought highly of mercy at all.) One could argue, in addition, it was not so unusual that M. le Maire might desire Inspector’s company—this thought Sister Perpetue to herself; by keeping that wolfhound on a tight leash, the citizens of Montreuil-sur-Mer may unclench their jaws and let their shoulders fall slack, for not every step and misstep suffered the risk of finding itself under that watchful eye. She rather swiftly admonished herself for letting such a thought be borne, though she could do little in the ways of concealing the wry amusement written all over her features, namely in the smirk that had etched itself into the corners of her lips.

The very last thought on her mind, before she had finished sweeping and retreated from the Main Street, is that she quite desired to be a fly on the wall, in a manner of speaking, during their conversations. For all the world, she could not think what the two of them had to discuss between themselves, for there might not exist another pair of people who seemingly had less to say to one another. This had to be true in some capacity, for they did not converse in excess; and after words had been exchanged, there were sure to be followed by days of silence before another conversation could take place. There were only so many topics they might try, and even then—success was not guaranteed. An argument could be made that they talked of work and important things a generous amount, for a mayor and the chief of police were both positions tasked with taking care of their respective town; the chief of police effectively being the right hand. This argument, upon reflection, satisfied Sister Perpetue overwhelmingly, and she thought herself quite smart for getting to the bottom of the issue. Thus, having no longer a motivation or need to mull over this unlikely couple, she ceased thinking of them at once.

Until tomorrow, at the very least.

The mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer stood at a corner at which two streets intersected. It was very apparent that he wasn’t merely standing in one spot for enjoyment’s sake, nor did he particularly seem thrilled by the notion of lingering overlong at such a nondescript yet exposed space. Granted, it didn’t seem as though many passers-by paid him much mind, much too focused on themselves and their own duties and errands. Occasionally a greeting would be thrown his way, like a ball that he was none too skilled to catch without it first striking him square on the forehead; and when it bounced off his skull into his hands, he fumbled to the extent it made the thrower regret casting the object. In such a way, he fumbled with his words, hardly registering the other person in due time, then blurting out something verging on impolite. This was entirely out of character for our mayor—but then again, so was loitering around random intersections. Here and there, though with increasing frequency the longer he stood, a pocket watch would make an appearance, glittering in the sunshine for but a couple of seconds before being slid back into its designated home on the man’s breast.

It was evident Monsieur Madeleine was waiting for a particular something. Someone, maybe.

When he took off, it seemed as though it was a move made at random. No one did approach him, nor did it seem as though he’d spotted anybody in particular; the uninterrupted mass of people travelling along the roads remained as brown and faceless as it’d been since he’d arrived, all workers clad in the same depressing tones, with the same sullen faces and the same hollow eyes. Still, something or someone had made him move; and for those that knew what to look for, that piece of the puzzle might be obvious.

The policeman Javert was normally a punctual man; more than merely punctual, he thrived on correctitude, regularity, and timeliness. To adhere to a routine was an enormous source of excitement; and as with all things, he found that the more rigorous the routine, the more pleased he would be with himself for abiding by it. From appearances, this seemed a fine quality to have; as with every other quality, it became skewed applied to the Inspector. Always he was as harsh with others as he was with himself, the concept of different degrees of ability being entirely lost on him. When he saw for himself that he could show up at a place on the dot consistently, he would become angry when others would not. So on and forth. This was the way of Javert, turning positives into negatives with practiced ease.

Javert descended the few steps of his townhouse, not pausing nor surveying his surroundings when his feet hit the cobbled street. He made a sharp left turn on instinct, gloved hands clasped behind his back as he strode. His boots clicked and clacked against the jutting stones. Another pair joined them. The person to whom they belonged was in a hurry, though slowed to a walk upon finding himself at Javert’s side. The person was M. Madeleine, rosy in the cheeks and winded.

“Javert.”

“You’re late.”

Madeleine was not late, as you and I know. In fact he had been ambitiously early, even for Javert’s own affinity for preposterously early mornings. It did not seem to be in the man’s interest, however, to let the Inspector in on this; he simply played along with the other’s presumption.

“I know. Forgive me.” The mayor smiled, undeterred and unaffected by the Inspector’s inscrutable visage, instead addressing him in the same easy-going tone he addressed everyone with.

Javert scoffed. It was an awful sound. “Forgiveness is not my area of expertise I’m afraid, Monsieur le maire. It is yours.”

“Surely you could learn from your superiors,” the mayor replied mildly. Javert’s face darkened by a shade.

“Of course, M. le maire,” the Inspector muttered stiffly; his utter intolerance for being spoken down to quarreled with his instilled deference to a figure of authority. This pleased M. Madeleine; though the mayor was a man of mercy and kindness, he was not blind to the fact that certain men of law might benefit from being taken down a notch, even if they would argue otherwise. (They most certainly would argue otherwise.)

They walked in a silence for what felt like a couple of minutes. To call the silence amiable might constitute as giving into falsehood for the sake of embellishing the reality of the matter, so we shan’t use that word; all the same, it must be made clear that the air around them wasn’t so heavy with distaste as it might have been weeks ago, at the time when neither of the men could bear to hitch two words together or look at each other without a frown.

They would soon come to pass a bakery, and when they approached it, it caused M. Madeleine to falter. The mayor stopped, and—unwittingly so, much to his dismay—so did the Inspector. He needn’t inquire why, for he had been hit by the same rich smell of freshly baked bread; it wafted through the building’s open windows, no doubt enticing all the passers-by (whether every one of them could afford to walk inside and leave with their hands full, that was less certain and another matter entirely, besides.) M. Madeleine seemed to be in two minds about something.

“Out with it, Monsieur,” Javert made an impatient gesture with his hands, though they soon returned to their own post behind his back.

Madeleine hmmph’ed, then straightened himself and cleared his throat before speaking. “Do you fancy a croissant?”

“A… a croissant?”

“Sure. I understand you are loathe to give into human frailty, Inspector, but even you must be affected by the chill. And, well, what is there better to battle the chill with than bread right out of the oven? Or, well, in this case, being as we are on the go, a croissant.”

Javert’s lips pressed even more tightly together, though it remained as difficult as ever to read his mind; indeed, the Inspector could be jumping for joy on the inside, and yet his outside would never match his true thoughts and feelings concerning any matter at hand. Now, we do know with some certainty that it is highly unlikely our Inspector would ever allow himself to be truly joyous, even in the privacy of his own mind. It was merely hyperbole to illustrate the point, it being that until the words left his mouth, M. Madeline was left to fester in anticipation to his reply.

“Do you insist, Monsieur?”

“I’m afraid I must.”

Javert’s hands dropped, and he gestured helplessly as a means of saying ‘I suppose I will have a croissant, Monsieur.’ Madeleine, seemingly perfectly capable of inferring this, let his mouth form into a smile as he disappeared into the building, shadowed by the policeman trailing behind him. This, as we know, is a bit of a trend in his life.

In no time, they found themselves walking side by side once more, only with their hands (and mouths, incrementally) full. M. Madeleine was the picture of contentedness, and Javert appeared genuinely dismayed that the croissant suited his tastes. Perhaps the Inspector would’ve preferred it to be poisoned, that he may exclaim “Aha!” in his dying moments, that he could perish with the belief he had been right to distrust the small baked good.

“Did you see M. Charpentier?” M. Madeleine interrupted Javert’s reverie.

“Hm?” The Inspector hummed around a bite, before swallowing it down. “Yes, I’d taken notice. Why do you inquire?”

The mayor shrugged, “I’m only surprised he deigned to enter and shop from such a… pedestrian store.”

“He must have been in a need of bread, and we have proved ourselves that it is sufficient enough in its selection of it.”

The mayor shook his head.

“What?” Demanded Javert.

“You must not be as familiar with M. Charpentier as well as I presumed you to be,” M. Madeleine shrugged, then—after a slight pause—he looked to Javert with a mischievous glint in his eyes. “And you’ve been here such a long time… tsk, tsk,” he tutted disapprovingly.

“I beg your pardon, Monsieur le maire!” Javert exclaimed, most offended. “Why, grant me forgiveness for not gossiping about the townspeople in my downtime! Stuff and nonsense, I have seen it all now.”

“Peace, Javert!” M. Madeleine laughed, “I was only teasing you. No, I suppose you are right, you’ve little reason to single out M. Charpentier; and the bible finds the act of gossip unfitting for Christians, and so I strive to keep myself a polite distance away from any such conversation. Only… well, concerning M. Charpentier, I find him to be rather distasteful, is all.”

“Distasteful, how?”

“He keeps an inn on Rue de la Pompe, and conceives himself to be above the humble society of this town. Mostly he houses merchants and travelers from Paris. I have witnessed him turn away people in need—and attention to such acts is of a sort I conceive myself particularly bound to pay,” spoke M. Madeleine, “I suppose, for this reason, I can’t help but find it… ah, well, ironic at best. Ordinarily I’m sure he wouldn’t greet the baker if he saw him out and about.”

To be sure, it is no coincidence Monsieur Madeleine would harbor such lingering and potent resentment towards an unkind innkeeper; the mere sight of M. Charpentier brought back unpleasant recollections of his arrival to the village of Digne, many years ago now—too many to count; how, not once but twice he’d been denied food and shelter—even with the means of affording both. Even a dog-house he had been turned away from by the dog that inhabited it.

Javert let out a thoughtful hum in response, seemingly quite engaged with the topic at hand. “It appears to be a regular case of self-conceit of a weak head.”

This elicited a chuckle from the mayor, who has just then finished the croissant. “Upon my word, that is an astute way of putting it. He is by far the least amiable man of my acquaintance, even with the likes of Bamatabois sullying the streets.”

Javert’s face twitched at the mention of Bamatabois, though he dwelled not on the mention of the man. “The two of you are acquainted?”

“Yes, and how unfortunate a thing. I have little choice in the matter, you understand; I’m acquainted with nearly all businessmen of this town, for better or for worse. Some of them possess goodness, others possess all the appearance of it; M. Charpentier possesses neither, I’m afraid.”

The conversation came to a natural conclusion at this point, for they reached their destination; or, rather, M. le maire’s destination. In any case, the factory was the point at which the two of them parted ways, Javert’s post being some ways away from it yet.

“Monsieur le maire.”

“Monsieur l'inspecteur.”

Such were their parting words, only accompanied by curt nods of their heads. The two pairs of eyes perhaps lingered a handful of seconds overlong on the other’s face, in a way they hadn’t before. It would be difficult to say with any certainty why this came to pass and why indeed neither was brought to temptation to make a comment on it, but such was the case; and following this, their companionship was no more, for by the time our mayor reached the factory doors that a path of stone brick led to, the Inspector’s footsteps could scarcely be heard over the general clamor, and he was naught but a tall and dark silhouette meandering through the crowd—distant and untouchable as ever.

Let us follow M. Madeleine for the moment.

The mayor was a beloved member of the community and something of a fairytale hero for most of the town he presided over, namely its poor and its working class; so, it should not come as a surprise to me nor you that he was greeted jovially and with much enthusiasm upon his entering the textile factory that he had resurrected and nearly built from the ground up, in a manner of speaking. People flocked to his side, overseers and those overlooking the production in the time of his absence, as to catch him up to speed. He paused dutifully each time, allowing every person to report on the situations to their heart’s content; everyone was allowed a taste of his patience and his easy good-humor, and everyone left with their heads equally full of him.

The only person who got less than this was precisely Madame Victurnien. M. Madeleine was not a man to hold a grudge, and it ought to be emphasized that he never intended to be short with her; partly as Fantine’s demise had been his doing equally, even if via indirect means. The state of apathy towards fellow men has been condemned by the Lord himself: At that time I will search Jerusalem with lamps, and I will punish the men who are complacent— Zephaniah 1:12-13—and though his apathy would have waned if he had learned the likes of Fantine’s circumstances, he knew that he should have acted even without knowing; that a better man than himself would have. While we understand that the mayor has not a rival in his goodness, and that none are without sin, M. Madeleine would much rather condemn himself. Such were his ways, and they kept him humble.

Back to the matters of Mme. Victurnien. She approached the mayor without any reluctance or indication that she carried the burden of Fantine’s fate the same way that M. Madeleine did. She did not even appear to take notice of the way M. Madeleine stiffened like a board or the way color mostly drained from his face. When she spoke, her air was not conciliating in the least as she reported upon the mediocrity and disinterestedness of a select few workers, speaking in so decisive and curt a manner as proved her judgement was not oft controverted; she was most assured that her word would be taken for it by the mayor. M. Madeleine displayed incredible pliancy of temper in listening to her, and made a promise to doll out appropriate penalties to the offenders; whether he would demonstrate obstinacy in adhering to this promise—she was none the wiser, and he much preferred it this way.

A heavy gust of air was let out by the mayor when the man finally reached his office; he was glad, as we all would be in his position, to finally be left alone. Contrary to a widely-held and popular belief, M. Madeleine was not a pure-blooded extrovert. To those that had known him back in the day, before he had become a mayor, this would seem like an overstatement: for they knew that Madeleine had once already rejected the offer of mayoralty made to him by the king himself, and as well, he had rejected the nomination as a Chevalier for the Legion of Honor. He did not appreciate any undue (or due yet excessive) attention, and this has not changed since; what has changed is merely that after being appointed a mayor, the luxury of keeping to himself has been taken away. It made him a public persona whose time and energy many felt entitled to. Though it exhausted him, he did not begrudge anybody (excepting, maybe, Mme. Victurnien) for it.

However, by far, the most exhausting company to keep has been Javert’s. Still, for all it was exhausting, it was necessary. Or so thought M. Madeleine.

Recognition had struck the moment the mayor’s eyes had been laid upon the policeman’s face—so frequently has the man starred in the worst of his nightmares that it’d be a feat, instead, to forget him. His features had etched themselves into the mayor’s brain long ago, during a time when the mayor had not been a mayor at all, but something much worse: a convicted criminal. Yes, indeed, it is a dark and terrible past that none are privy to but himself; an old life that M. Madeleine had—or so he believed—managed to divorce himself from the moment that he had stolen that silverware and those candlesticks from the Bishop of Digne called Monseigneur Bienvenu—and been promptly forgiven for it. Seeing Javert that day, after he had been so sure that in the years that have passed he’s managed to run away from it all for good—well, it was no pleasant experience. At first, M. Madeleine did what any other hunted animal might do—he avoided the predator, made himself as scarce as a field mouse, speaking to him no more than necessary and looking at him even less. It could not be borne; that flat nose flanked by the characteristic side-whiskers, and those thick brows that were so much in the state of frowning they may as well be one, and those deep-set eyes always narrowed in suspicion—it was a difficult burden to bear, allowing that countenance in one’s field of vision. Especially if one was M. Madeleine, mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer—but even more so if one donned on M. Madeleine every morning as a mask to hide what lurked underneath: an ex-con on the run, name of Jean Valjean.

One night, however, he had had an epiphany. He was no animal. The animal was always Jean Valjean, and had he not tried—and by God, succeeded—to set himself far away from that person? Had he not pushed Jean Valjean down to the deepest and darkest parts of his soul, never to see the light again? And had he not cultivated the persona of Madeleine so meticulously that he may live a good and honest life with it? Had he not become Monsieur Madeleine, after all? Does he not embody all that Madeleine represents—mercy, understanding, humility, and the utmost reverence for God?

He does. He is. 

That night, Jean Valjean had undergone another death, what may be called the true finishing blow. Or so M. Madeleine hoped. And the day after, when Jean Valjean was truly no more, Madeleine found himself readily speaking to the Inspector, with the keenness and conviviality of a most amiable man that certainly had nothing to hide, and was not in the least afraid. It remained uncertain to this day whether Javert had thought anything of it, or if perhaps the Inspector had brushed off the mayor’s previous disposition as affected by stress or waking up on the left side of the bed; for his sanity’s sake—and, perhaps from a logical conclusion—Javert was none the wiser, and never had been.

The frequency at which they kept each other’s company increased in a linear fashion, perhaps only naturally for the simple fact that their positions all but required them to keep a close work relationship. M. Madeleine found himself being almost relieved for it: if Javert was by his side and adequately placated, he was at little risk of being turned on. And, though it was unlikely he would ever say as much for the reasons mentioned in above paragraphs, there was some hoping that every encounter further fortified the notion that Madeleine was naught but the diligent mayor of a small town.

Such were M. Madeleine’s thoughts as he looked skyward through the window of his office, taking in the hues of blue streaked with the yellow gold of the morning and dappled with the soft white of little clouds making their never-ending journeys across the sky.

Having allowed M. Madeleine his moment in the sun, we must offer the same to Inspector Javert, who was at this moment still making his commute—alone. To say the Inspector appeared unhappy might classify as an overstatement, for he rarely ever appeared otherwise. Even so, he did seem particularly troubled—his eyes clouded over as though he was somewhere far away in his head, elsewhere that isn’t Montreuil-sur-Mer, grappling with the echo of some memory he could never quite get his hands on—always seemingly close, but never quite within each. I shall venture to reveal something only I am aware of, besides Javert himself, but that which is crucial for this story to make a lick of sense: ever since his arrival to this humble provincial town, Javert could not escape the impression that M. le maire’s face was most familiar, that he had seen this man before—even though that could plainly not be so, for to forget a magistrate of the mayor’s distinction was simply unthinkable, and thus he would not entertain the idea for as much as a moment. No, he had to have met the man before his rise to mayoralty—but when? At any point in his life, Javert could very well have lost the majority of his fingers—and could still count on one hand the amount of people that he might, on a good day, consider to be his friends. Even then, it couldn’t be said with any certainty whether he would deign to call them so; perhaps in his youth, when he had been close to two men name of Sévère Perrault and Edgard Lévesque, he might have called them his brothers in arms. Now, Lévesque was much too busy climbing on and falling off the bandwagon after having hit the bottle during his days as a prison-ward—or so it was when Javert had last seen him (and many years have passed since.) Perrault had remained in Paris, having become an Inspector himself some years after Javert. Perrault much more cared about cultivating a family and concerning himself with all that being a family man entails. Javert has not, and never did have, such instincts. This digression aside, we may say with a reasonable degree of certainty that Javert and M. Madeleine had never been friends, even in passing.

A memory had stirred some months ago, however, when a man name of Fauchelevent had lost control of his horse and the cart upon which he sat. No one could really say how it had come to pass, for it all transpired so quickly; it could only be said that suddenly Fauchelevent was caught beneath the vehicle, utterly entrapped and positively in a deathly situation. There were none that could help him, not excluding Javert himself, who had arrived at the scene some time later—when Fauchelevent’s situation had grown even more drastically precarious. ‘A jack!’ he had hollered, ‘We need a jack!’ —to seemingly no avail; the people seemed utterly unable to do anything but gawk, much less produce one—and to martyr oneself by attempting the fool’s errand of getting down into the mud and lifting the wooden construction, no one was willing; and for a good reason.

I must stand corrected: no one but Monsieur le maire.

Watching the mayor rid himself of his outermost clothing to single-mindedly and single-handedly set the old man free from certain death, combined with his own previous words—which now bounced around in the cavern of his skull (‘A jack! We need a jack!)—made Javert think of a man; a man who had broken his parole and disappeared years ago now, presumed dead. A man that had been adorned with nicknames such as ‘le Cric’—the Jack—during his time in Toulon prison. A dangerous criminal possessing both brain and brawn unlike anything Javert had ever seen, who had attempted and nearly succeeded in escaping many a time, who has been long dead at best or has been roaming the country at worst, for years. This man he could now see clothed in the attire of a saint, and wearing one’s mask well enough. This man he could now not divorce from M. Madeleine. This man, known as Jean le Cric to the galley-men and Jean Valjean to the law, Javert believed to be posing as M. Madeleine, the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer.

He determined that he had to have been right with this assertion, some months ago. To this day he made a point of always keeping one eye on the mayor, the other eye on the townsfolk; lying in wait for any slip-up, any misstep, any indication that the mayor was not who he claimed to be. When Javert had only just arrived, the man had been inordinately skittish—this behavior made perfect sense now, and fit remarkably well with Javert’s line of thinking. Unfortunately so, there was no proof that it had ever happened. It would not suffice in backing up his claims in court of justice—but, upon reflection, perhaps it did not need to. Perhaps it only needed to convince Javert.

And convince him it did.

But, infuriatingly so, the mayor did not slip-up. He made no missteps, he never misspoke, he never displayed anything but perfect goodness and humility of manner, all characteristics so unlikely to be appended to a galley ruffian that even Javert sometimes doubted himself. M. Madeleine carried himself with an air of authority yet benignity, seriousness yet sincerity. He spoke in the manner of an educated man, and he was known to harbor a love for reading—namely the scripture, which he held in high esteem. Though some would characterize him as a private person, it was known that he always approached to make conversation and polite enquiries. M. Madeleine was the most amiable man of everyone’s acquaintance.

Such thoughts troubled Javert, even after he had arrived at his post. It was most infuriating; he knew himself to be distracted, yet those ideas swarmed the forefront of his mind, less susceptible to being swatted away than they were ordinarily. He worked scatterbrained, and would become deeply displeased with himself upon returning to his rooms. That day he deliberately selected another route home, one that would not take him to the factory. Though he had placed most emphasis on keeping the damned mayor in his sights as frequently as possible, he did not think he could bear to see him—not when the man had been on his mind unbidden all day, him and his kind face coupled with the body of a convict.

 

 

 

 

Abruptly he found himself wishing that Madeleine had been there. Two innate qualities of the man would’ve made his presence of essence—the first, and the most obvious, would be the man’s likeness to the devil that had caused this unease in the first place, the devil that had evaded him for years and had the gall to perish by a hand other than Javert’s; the second, and the less obvious, would be the man’s ability to take the brunt of Javert’s anger with (he would begrudgingly admit) admirable stoicism. He had found the mayor’s unwavering patience maddeningly bothersome in the past, for the man dolled it out with little regard for the deservingness of those whom found themselves on the receiving end of it (petty thieves and pickpockets and prostitutes and drunks); now, however, it would have been useful—much patience would be required, now, to hear all that Javert would’ve desired to unload from his shoulders and yet be able to grant an amnesty to it, turn a deaf ear in a manner of speaking.

i had not anticipated returning to this work anytime soon, but a handful of really lovely comments inspired me to continue working on it. a thanks is in order for that, so thank you everybody for the kind words of encouragement :) it would not have happened without them, haha.

being that it has been some three months, give or take, since i have last paid mind to this work, there may be some discrepancies in tone and style. i really hope that this is all in my head, but in case it is not, then i hope it is not an obstacle to your enjoying it!

lastly, this is un-beta'ed and all mistakes are mine—do feel free to point them out.

Javert, despite his ardent dislike of the written word, was a man who knew a great many things; this knowledge he had come by in his numerous years of public service which required of him to directly deal with the worst of the worst, the scum of the earth, those men who had fallen from grace and remained low in the estimation of the Lord and law both. Yes, indeed, such things could hardly be learned by reading books and heavy tomes whilst cozied up in an armchair, perchance beside a fireplace, in one’s study or a library. As a consequence of facing (and outsmarting!) brutes and criminals for the greater portion of his life, he has had ample opportunity to hone the skills the likes of patience, determination, cunning, fortitude—and an unwavering sense of justice to go alongside them. This is why he’d allowed the false-mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer so much time before he had struck, as it were. The man was not going anywhere, no one in their right mind would remove the borderline-saint from this post; and it was the most precarious operation, besides—to jeopardize it due to something as insignificant as impatience would be folly to an extraneous degree, not to mention a show of sheer impudence towards his duty to the wider public as a police officer, and an inspector at that—to fail in removing such a dangerous criminal when he, Javert, was the only man he could… it would’ve been an indignation that he had no desire to suffer. An indignation only between God and himself, yet an indignation nonetheless.

For all of that, in the end, the night that Javert had selected hadn’t been special in any regard. Perhaps to say that he had ‘selected’ it, as such, would be remiss. It only seemed a night as good as any other, now that he had observed the mayor to a degree the Inspector deemed sufficient. If there had been a trace of doubt in his mind previously, now there wasn’t any, anymore. His conviction was iron-clad, as was his resolution to see this injustice brought to light, and the ex-convict exposed. Hopefully, the ‘ex’ would soon thereafter finally become omitted from Javert’s favored turn of phrase, and Jean Valjean would at long last be put where he has belonged for many years now—safe behind bars.

He could already picture it now, as he worked in diligently drawing up a letter of condemnation to the Parisian Prefecture of Police; he pictured in his mind’s eye the large and dimly lit courtroom, intermittently silent and filled with the buzz of voices. Magistrates in robes standing at one end, and a crowd of spectators at the other. Where some saw darkness, ugliness and melancholy, Javert saw a place as holy so as to rival any church or parish, a sacred ground in its own right; a place which lent itself to the merging of the great human proceeding that we call law and the divine proceeding that is called justice. A thrill brought forth gooseflesh along the skin of his arms and neck as he allowed himself the frivolity of imagining Jean Valjean stripped of his mayoral attire, the gold chains of his livery collar replaced by heavy iron clasped around his wrists. Yes, the humiliation would be most unbearable, perhaps even more so than the long years of galley-work that would follow his trial. Javert was certain of it; the likes of Jean Valjean—men who positively thirsted for public recognition, who longed to decorate themselves with undeserved medals, awards, and honors—would loathe the indignity of bland rags and chains befitting of a criminal. Befitting of him. For all that Jean Valjean enjoyed playing the mayor whom possessed a certain humility of manner and easy-good humor, his greed was a millstone in Javert’s eye; the Inspector did not miss the degree of celebrity the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer had acquired for himself, nor did the small matter of all one-hundred and forty-one communes comprising the administrative district of Montreuil-sur-Mer being indebted to a degree to the man go unnoticed under his watchful scrutiny. At last, all of that would be no more.

Here are several excerpts from Javert’s missive: A magnate name of Madeleine has in the course of a few years, by the use of a new process, revived an ancient local industry—the manufacture of jet beads and black glasswork. He has amassed a small fortune for both himself and the district in the Pas-de-Calais. A reward for his services to the people of the district was his appointment as mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer. It has come to my attention, however, that Monsieur Madeleine is little more than an old fraud in the most egregious sense. His name is not Madeleine at all, but Jean Valjean—an ex-convict in breach of parole, gone into hiding in plain sight. The rogue has for many years now succeeded in eluding the law and the consequences which befit him, by changing his name and contriving to get himself elected mayor. (…)

Javert wet his lips as he concluded the missive: Yours faithfully, Inspector Javert.

Javert was, directly the following day, in unprecedentedly high spirits. M. Madeleine took note of this rather drastic change in attitude straightaway, the moment the two had fallen together into step and begun their commute. Two thoughts on the matter warred with one another inside his head, as the mayor could not come to a satisfying conclusion. He could not say whether this change was a happy one or not, he could not say whether a pleased Javert was a harbinger of something decidedly jovial or dangerous instead. He came to realize, casting furtive glances at the smirking Inspector, that he had become entirely used to dealings with the man when the same was his usual prickly self. He had learned, in this time that they have existed together in this small provincial town, to read the varying degrees of Javert’s ever-sullen mood; he could tell with now practiced ease when the Inspector was only moderately irate and when he could get away with a well-placed barb, one that would make the man bark but not bite. Just as well, Madeleine knew—by the depth of his forehead-creases and the tightness in the press of his lips and the firm clench of his jaw—when it was best to leave the poor Inspector alone. Perhaps, the mayor reflected, he had grown too lax around the policeman, and too he had given himself much liberty in exercising his authority over the man. Madeleine would not say he abused said authority, though the fact remained that certain comments and implications would simply not pass if he were a commoner speaking to the Inspector—or, Lord forbid, a convict (and perish the thought, indeed.)

This was an occasion during which the two did not speak. They had exhausted various topics yesterday, all three of them which they could discuss in a sufficient enough truce, and so it followed that today they would walk in silence. Given the circumstances, this suited Madeleine; he wasn’t altogether sure whether he had it in him to inquire about Javert’s improved disposition, and he had little mind to instead restrict his remarks to the weather or the state of the roads (which has become somewhat abysmal, he had to admit—at no one’s fault but his own, truly, and he’d have to rectify this failing soon enough; he noted the thought on a mental list of priorities) or something equally trifling. Thus Madeleine resumed, content to labor under the self-inflicted ignorance of the Inspector’s scheming—and the man was scheming, there was no question about that.

“Out with it, Monsieur,” Javert bit out the familiar command, the sharpness in his voice only slightly dulled by the barely-perceptible (to all those whom are not, in fact, M. Madeleine) improvement in mood. Madeleine suppressed the long-suffering sigh that had threatened to escape him; what with everything happening inside his head, he’d all but forgotten the Inspector’s perceptiveness. As he had wished many times before, Madeleine would’ve liked if the man wasn’t so damn aware of every little thing, including but hardly limited to the mayor’s own expressions and moods and states of mind. It was unnerving, to be known so well by one so despised by yourself.

“I’ve no idea what you mean, Monsieur l'inspecteur,” Madeleine conjured up his most pleasant smile, and he saw almost immediately that the Inspector was not fooled by it.

“You wear your heart on your sleeve, Monsieur le maire,” Javert scoffed, as though it were shameful. “Clearly there is something on your mind, and I have no desire to mollycoddle it out of you. If you would, have your say, and then desist in your staring.”

“I have not stared, Monsieur.”

Javert scowled, any trace of his previous joviality wiped from his expression. “You care to nitpick over semantics, now?” he demanded, though tacked on as an afterthought: “Monsieur.”

“I am merely suggesting, Javert, that you of all people ought to understand the importance of accuracy. It is significant to put much care and thought into the words of one’s choosing, for it is words precisely that separate, say, assault from self-defense, and theft from robbery,” said M. Madeleine thoughtfully, “The careful choosing of an accurate word to describe an action could very well make the difference between apprehension and freedom, between a felon and an innocent man.”

“Be that as it may, Monsieur,” Javert, who has grown more annoyed yet during the course of Madeleine’s speech, continued, “I hardly see how my calling a duck a duck signifies. We are not in the court of law. You are not standing trial. That I have not called your staring perhaps ‘scrutinizing’ or ‘gazing’ is of no consequence.”

“But, it is,” Madeleine pressed, “as I have not stared nor gazed nor scrutinized, Monsieur.”

Javert, now bristling, spat, “What would you call it, then?”

Madeleine inclined his head this way and that, seemingly earnestly considering this. “Glancing,” he said at last, “perhaps peering.”

Javert looked every bit like a man ready to implode from the sheer ridiculousness of the situation. “Cease belaboring this moot point at once, Monsieur le maire. You understand very well, for you are not daft, what I had asked of you. Now, if you please, do deign to reply. If you will not, tell me so at once that we may move onto another topic.”

Madeleine smiled wryly, “Would you indeed concede to switch subjects without having been given a sufficient reply to your query?”

“I would, though it would pain me tremendously, if only to put an early end to your nonsensical tirades—listening to which would pain me to a greater extent yet,” Javert sent a rather unkind look this way, which Madeleine did not care to acknowledge, merely letting it go by like letting water slide off a duck’s back. He knew it to be wicked even as he thought it, but Madeleine could hardly ignore the way he has allowed himself to relax once he’d gotten the Inspector riled up (which was not altogether a difficult feat to achieve.) This was the Javert he has known all this time, the Javert whose shades of anger he could tell apart, the Javert whose bites that came in the form of scathing remarks he’d learned to dodge and work around. There was nothing new or foreign about this, there was nothing which put him ill at ease, there was nothing that stirred anxieties in his gut and brought a tremble to his fingers.

Javert never did get the chance to find out in more detail the motivations behind Madeleine’s staring, gazing, or scrutinizing, as he would’ve called it, or his glancing, perhaps peering, as Madeleine would’ve called it. They had just reached the factory then, and bid each other their usual terse goodbyes:

“Monsieur le maire.”

“Monsieur l'inspecteur.”

Encounters much alike this very one that we had just viewed would persist between the mayor and the Inspector for approximately another week’s time; Monsieur le maire would each time attempt to talk himself into demanding Javert say what it is that has kept him so pleased for such an inordinately long while (for as we know, the Inspector is normally a rather sullen man.) I am sorry to say that M. Madeleine did not, in fact, dredge up enough courage to make that inquiry, although I should say that once or twice he had indeed come very close, and for that we must commend his efforts. Be that as it may, he would come to find soon enough.

The Roman poet Horace was an advocate of plays in five acts; some centuries after him, the German playwright Gustav Freytag would further develop the five-act structure. The format grew to become rather popular, by reason of its efficacy, and notably Shakespeare availed himself of its services. Those five acts that it is comprised of are as follows: the exposition, rising action, the climax, falling action, and denouement. Though this is hardly a play and I am myself not much of a playwright, I have indeed adopted Freytag’s own style in composing this piece of writing. This is to say, I am happy to inform you that we have reached the climax, a turning point in a manner of speaking. Aside from ourselves, this is only known to Javert. He would not call it as such, for he is quite unaware that any previous acts have taken place or indeed that his life could be said to be a performance of sorts, but no matter. Without further ado, let us dive into that which came to pass and thusly marked the pinnacle of this—I daresay—farce worthy of Melpomene herself.

It all started when Javert had sat himself down posterior to his dinner, and sought to open the envelope which had come earlier in the day as a reply to his reaching out to the Prefecture. He wasn’t altogether certain what to think, as he would have expected more than a few measly pieces of paper; surely that will not do much in the ways of helping with the apprehension and arrest of a dangerous criminal.

Here is what the Prefecture’s own missive said:


Monsieur Javert,



the Parisian Prefecture of Police desires to convey its appreciation of your diligence and the most commendable dedication you showcase time and time again as the Chief of Police. We have found the contents of your previous missive most illuminating, and for your promptness in notifying us, again, we can not thank you enough.



With that in mind, we must inform you that the convict you speak of has been deceased for some years now. The man Jean Valjean had been re-captured in summer of 1814, per our records, and re-tried at the Assize Court of Var. In addition to the breach of his parole, he was charged with several acts of armed highway robbery that he had committed in the weeks prior to his arrest. On his return to Toulon prison, he was given a new number and had become No. 9430. Mere months after the imprisonment, Jean Valjean succumbed to a sickness that had spread through the prison at the time, and now lies buried with the rest of the deceased convicts whose bodies had not been claimed by their families. Should you so wish, you will find his grave at XVIII, G3.1 (in which case, do write us back that we may make necessary arrangements.)



Cordially,M. André Baudin


To say that Javert had not wasted beyond a day to make that journey would be excessive in the extreme, though I shall say so regardless, for the sake of the story. Yes, Javert had gone indeed, without so much as considering drawing up a reply (as he had been instructed.) It should go without saying, as well, that this was most unusual; the act itself, though not rebellious in the least, went against everything which our Inspector upheld: every preposterous self-imposed rule he adhered to, every last instinct of his which demanded propriety and correctitude. In the less than a minute’s time that it had taken for him to read the missive twice over, he had been assailed by such emotions as have left his innards in a state of ultimate discord and disarray. Outwardly, perhaps few could discern this; though he was alone, his reaction had only amounted to a single heavy breath—which was abundant proof of the anguish that had been brought upon him.

Two equally dark ideas haunted him through the night, and continued in their haunting upon the dawning of the following day, and Javert’s trip to the coach which would take him part of the way to his destination. He knew not which of the two was worse—that he, Javert, had been wrong in his estimation and mistook the saintly mayor for a brutish criminal (with such ardent certainty that he had written to the Prefecture!) or the Prefecture had captured the wrong man many years ago (and without a man to try, without a man to take blame off of, there was no hope of righting this wrong.) One of those ideas, granted, was a mite easier to swallow than the other; Javert thought highly of his memory and intuition, but he thought more highly yet of his superiors. Javert’s reverence toward authority will have become familiar to the reader by this point, so I shall not take it upon myself to reintroduce the concept for the sake of brevity; repetition has its merits, certainly, and yet it is a close sister to redundancy—which has none. It is precisely due to this reverence, however, that Javert was in that very moment all the keener on taking the blame onto himself. He had failed, and by God it would not have been the first time in his professional career (though this did not make it much easier to swallow.)

In the coach he had boarded he was, thus far, the only passenger. All the better, thought he dejectedly, for he would not have delighted to have an audience to his plight. Though he held himself and otherwise moved with his customary deliberation, his face was today less than stellar in remaining perfectly blank (save for the equally customary scowl, which too had been deepened yet.)

A couple of things demand to be established before I may let on what the Inspector did next, for it would seem such an inconsequential in itself a thing—though it is vital that the significance of the action is adequately impressed upon the reader. It must be understood—completely, decisively, unquestionably and incontrovertibly—both that making concessions was very low on the list (or at all) comprised of the Inspector’s favorite activities, and that the Inspector was not a wholly evil man, in that he held himself much to the same standard as he did those around him. He was hardly in the habit of dolling out praise, and with the same disdain he viewed any other indulgence; this is to say that he did not oft allow himself concessions to human frailty (and much can be said on the matter of the man’s own perception of himself, as it would appear at the best of times as though he tended to fall into the habit of forgetting that he is, after all, flesh and blood. However, we shall endeavor to revisit this topic at another time), and when he did, it was merely in the form of allowing himself a pinch of snuff—only and exclusively when he felt inordinately pleased with himself. Javert had no other vice to speak of, and certainly he would not have permitted himself the frivolity of snuffing regularly.

With that in mind, I will reveal now that in that coach on that morning, the Inspector indeed inhaled a soupçon of powdered tobacco up his (right) nostril, all in the name of soothing his frayed nerves and hopefully putting a stop to the tremble in his fingers. He had nobody to bare his teeth at, and yet he scowled at the glass, the mirrored image of his angered self staring back at him with black hatred in his eyes; indeed, the object of his ire just then was none other but his own self.

Abruptly he found himself wishing that Madeleine had been there. Two innate qualities of the man would’ve made his presence of essence—the first, and the most obvious, would be the man’s likeness to the devil that had caused this unease in the first place, the devil that had evaded him for years and had the gall to perish by a hand other than Javert’s; the second, and the less obvious, would be the man’s ability to take the brunt of Javert’s anger with (he would begrudgingly admit) admirable stoicism. He had found the mayor’s unwavering patience maddeningly bothersome in the past, for the man dolled it out with little regard for the deservingness of those whom found themselves on the receiving end of it (petty thieves and pickpockets and prostitutes and drunks); now, however, it would have been useful—much patience would be required, now, to hear all that Javert would’ve desired to unload from his shoulders and yet be able to grant an amnesty to it, turn a deaf ear in a manner of speaking.

That, or dredge up enough ability for forgiveness to cover every last one of those would-be transgressions against a magistrate, and then some, for Javert would not have been able to forgive his own self—Madeleine would’ve had to had enough to cover that, too.

Javert loathed knowing that the mayor did have it.

He remained withdrawn from the world, wholly within the realms of his mind. He had to get to the bottom of this mystery—and to the bottom of it get he would, for we know Javert’s ways: obsessive, when in possession of a bone to chew on. The Inspector thought back to his arrival to Montreuil-sur-Mer in the year 1819, the uncanny familiarity which preyed on his mind whenever his eyes found the twinkling blue of Monsieur le maire’s, the absolute gratification and ecstasy beyond measure he had then felt watching Madeleine brought down to his knees and crawling beneath the damaged cart of Père Fauchelevent, the man’s raw strength ascertaining once and for all (or so he had believed) that he had him; Javert had found Jean Valjean amid a mass of faces in this here rural industry town, even if it had taken four years of daily doubt. The incident had granted him but a handful of months of unprecedented clarity, during which he had been at liberty to observe the man even more hawkishly than he had hitherto—and though his renewed efforts had not yielded any more fruit than the previous, his assuredness in his own judgement (which had not oft been controverted) wavered not. He did not think it possible, indeed—not, until, that accursed letter from the Prefecture.

It had instilled doubt in Inspector Javert, a most unusual feeling. A feeling that would’ve had him lashing out (more frequently than ordinarily) if it weren’t for the confusion that had come with it and, inadvertently, distracted the man from fits of ire. This is the manner in which his mind remained engaged throughout the duration of the drive (even despite the layover in Nerves)—oscillating between intense self-doubt and equally fierce self-reproach, and sheer anger at the possibility he might have been bested, after all, by a criminal in plain sight. He could still not decide which of the two lines of thought he would rather embark on.

To tell you the truth, not I nor Javert could really say with any certainty what had made him embark on this journey in the first place; I do so abhor failing in my omniscience, yet I value honesty above all else: and in all truth, the decision was as rash as it was perplexing, utterly unbefitting of our logical and predictable Inspector. That, at least, ought to illustrate the havoc within his mind to an appropriate extent—and utter havoc it had to be, for Javert to give into such an impulse as this trip. He had been beset by a confusion of the most violent sort, the sort which prevented rational thought and acts acting according to the rules of logic. He needed to see the grave, though he knew not what for; he did not think it would clarify much of anything, and if by the time of his reaching Toulon he had decided for himself which of the two hypotheses he’d take as true, it would not avail him to the other. Nor would it affect his certainty in the belief of his choice.

Yet for all that—he still had to see it.

Javert cared nothing for the Bagne of Toulon. It was an unsightly old building, but then again, so were many; this country hardly found itself lacking ugly buildings persisting on borrowed time. Though the place was tightly wound in an air of depression and desperation, as though indeed a dark cloud had found purchase above it and never let up or changed location, Javert hardly required such a thing to dampen his fit of ill temper. It was plenty damp as is.

The graveyard could hardly pass as one, though far be it from anybody to demand something more dignified for the scum of society. Plain rectangle-shaped stones lined grassy pathways between the rows of them, all of it so completely crammed together that it was hard not to believe the pathways weren’t directly above the dead. Javert frowned at the thought; yes, scum though they were, to defile the dead was most heinous in the eyes of God—and to fashion their final resting place in a manner which would cause eternal trampling-over was most incorrect. Javert remembered a passage from the book of Revelation: ‘Their bodies will lie in the public square of the great city where also their Lord was crucified. For three and a half days some from every people, tribe, language and nation will gaze on their bodies and refuse them burial. The inhabitants of the earth will gloat over them and will celebrate by sending each other gifts, because these two prophets had tormented those who live on the earth. But after the three and a half days the breath of life from God entered them, and they stood on their feet, and terror struck those who saw them.’

He sincerely doubted any breath at all, least of all come from God, would fill the lungs of the decayed human remains which lay in the barely-graveyard adjacent to the Bagne. Nonetheless, Javert made an effort to stride along the border of the grassy pathway, quietly scoffing in the silence at the thought that he had not contrived to think, but which had come to him regardless in a fit of dark humor, which had been something along the lines of sincerely hoping the dead would forgive him for walking all over their toes so long as he had made an effort to afford them the dignity of not trampling their torsos or faces.

He had left the missive back in his rooms at Montreuil-sur-Mer, though he had no need of it now: he had remembered the location of the dratted gravestone. Javert repeated it as a mantra in his mind (which had not been necessary in the slightest, for it had tucked itself into the crevices of his brain the very first moment it’d entered his mind) until he reached it.

Javert peered at it wordlessly.

He hadn’t expected much, and yet he found himself… disappointed was not the word.

An unassuming grey slab of tone, identical to the rest. Perhaps slightly less weathered on account of of the few years it had existed. Carved into it was as follows:

Jean ValjeanNo. 94301768—1814

Javert’s lip curled familiarly, the frown in its place once more. He had expected… more. Nay more, he had expected something. If not from the grave itself, then from his own self. He had expected some sort of clarity. He had expected his mind to be made up, the horrible burden of ignorance taken off of him—and yet he has resolved nothing, decided nothing, settled nothing (or so was his conviction.) Perhaps he had put too much stock in a bit of chiseled stone, perhaps he had made the trip for nothing. Anger such as he had not known permeated his senses, its tendrils reaching into every last bit of his body from somewhere within his heart; it became most concentrated in his extremities, coursing through his arms and coiling around the tips of his fingers in a way which demanded from him immediate, destructive action. He desired, just then, to break that headstone in half; he desired to see it crumble in his hand; he desired to wipe the name that had wrongly been carved into the stone.

Perhaps this was his mind being made up. Perhaps this as-yet-unknown anger had come from a place of surety that, though No. 9430 lay here dead and buried, No. 24601 is at this very moment in his mayoral office at Montreuil-sur-Mer, rejoicing in the knowledge that he had bested the law and Javert himself, thoroughly gloating that every day he was right beneath the nose of his most ardent pursuer, and remained undetected.

Anger gave way to dejection.

Though Javert had stood as still as stone whilst the whirlwind of emotions and revelations had torn through him, a tiredness had set in his bones. A tiredness and a chill, though come from somewhere within the Inspector, rather than being caused by the weather.

Yes, Jean Valjean had bested him. He would not remain ignorant to his loss.

Javert lifted his hung head, letting his chin remain buoyant in face of the travesty. His circumstances were most dire, so strange and appalling as to have caused an upheaval of such extent that is only seldom experienced in a man’s life.

The day had come that he would give his resignation, and he would do so whilst keeping every last morsel of dignity that he could dredge up from his heavy head.

The conversation surrounding Javert’s desired dismissal and Madeleine’s staunch objection to the same had left the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer perplexed and confuddled to the extreme, so much that he had not slept a wink that night, overcome with the desire to unpuzzle this riddle that had been set before him. It had come so suddenly and so inexplicably that it had not yet had the time to sink in; another thing that hadn’t quite yet sunk in was the terror which would’ve undoubtedly been stirred within him in any normal circumstance at the knowledge that Javert had been suspecting him all this time. Terror, yes, and then relief upon being aware with much certainty that the danger was past.

Seeing, however, as neither had come yet, Madeleine was quite at liberty to pore over all this newfound information.

Javert’s words rung in his head:


Monsieur le maire, a serious breach of discipline has been committed… An inferior member of the public service has shown the utmost disrespect for a magistrate. I have come, as in duty bound, to inform you of the fact.


He recalled himself asking: Who is the offender? And then, inexplicably: Myself. He had demanded: And who is the magistrate who has been disrespectfully treated? And then, even more shockingly: You are, Monsieur le maire.

Snippets of the conversation continued coursing through the current of his mind, that river of thoughts and conclusions growing and brimming and threatening to spill over the sides of its waterbed. I denounced you to the Prefecture of Police in Paris as an ex-convict. That is what I believed. I had had the idea for a long time. A certain facial resemblance, the great physical strength you displayed in the Fauchelevent episode… all trifles. Nevertheless, I suspected you of being a man called Jean Valjean.

To have heard that name spoken by the Inspector had stirred an inexplicable rage, and perhaps a healthy dash of fear to go alongside it. It had almost caused him to act in the most unforgivable way—he had wanted to strike the Inspector, though he hadn’t acted on the urge and had repented immediately. Frightening, too, had it been to become conscious of the basest of instincts that the mere mention of the accursed name had woken in himself. He had then schooled his expression with most care, stony-faced absorbing Inspector Javert’s own testimony of his own perceived disrespect, which had come to be concluded with the demand (Javert would have called it request, though Madeleine was far too old to take it as such) that he be dismissed.

That was it.

Handed to him on a silver platter, an escape-ticket from the last ball-and-chain of his past. The opportunity to be rid of the wolfhound that so relentlessly pursued him so many years after he had put it all behind himself.

Jean Valjean would have pounced on the opportunity.

Monsieur Madeleine did not.

He could not say whether he regretted it now. Madeleine supposed that only time would tell. For now, a certain uncertainty, as it were, hung between them.

And what did they say? he had asked. That I was wrong, the reply had come. And? Then, And they were right, Javert had said. I’m glad you realize it. Javert had dropped his head, so much like a child scolded.

And then he had gone on to say something which had caused Madeleine’s breath to catch in his throat: They must be right, since the real Jean Valjean had died some years ago now. His grave is at Toulon prison. 

If Madeleine had not been in his right mind, if some residual hypervigilance had swam to surface in that moment, he would’ve called the look Javert had given him just then ‘searching’; as though the man had chosen his words very carefully, as though he had let them escape past his lips and into the world, as though he had spoken them into existence, into the very air between them, only for them to reach Madeleine’s ears and exhibit their effect on him in the expression that would be brought forth to the mayor’s face. Luckily for Madeleine, his previous efforts to remain expressionless had disallowed a reaction.

Except, of course, for the breath.

Clumsily, he’d cleared his throat to cover it.

Although, of course, it would not have mattered if he had let anything on; the Inspector had not meant anything by his words, nor by his look, and to think otherwise would not only be most presumptuous, but it would mean he had given into paranoia that he had otherwise held back for years. That, of course, could not be borne.

He hadn’t wished to continue the conversation past that point; he had made a gesture of dismissal.

Javert had stood still. Forgive me, Monsieur, I have to remind you of something. Pause. I must be dismissed from the service.

Putting much effort into calming himself, Madeleine had thus spoken: Javert, you are an honorable man and I respect you highly. You are exaggerating your offense, which is any case is a matter that only concerns myself. You deserve to go up in the world, Javert, not down. I want you to stay in your present post.

Madeleine had not expected gratitude. Not from the likes of Javert, at the very least. He had, however, expected a modicum of civility—especially after everything that had come to pass between the two of them during the course of the present conversation.

Instead, Javert had glowered at him, his eyes having acquired a reddish glint in the dimmed lanternlight. He had looked dangerous, then, yes, so much like a wolf ready to strike. His whole being seemed to have caught ablaze, not least of all owing to the auburn of his hair. He had appeared so much like the devil of Madeleine’s nightmares that the man in question shuddered, vaguely wondering whether this confrontation would turn physical. He had thought Javert wiser than that… but, alas. So many surprises have come to light tonight, what was one more?

And then it had gone; Javert had stepped back—schooled his own expression into something carefully blank, although his posture had depicted every concealed emotion and thought; in his slight slouch, he had been midway between rage and guilt, determination and resignation, and though his rocklike countenance had gone cold, a whisper of that earlier flame remained trapped within the ice of his eyes. All at once, with the air of somber melancholy—without waiting for the mayor’s own dismissal, as he usually would have—he had removed himself from Madeleine’s presence, having disappeared behind the door of the meager factory office, his tall shadow creeping through the gap between the wood and the floor until it was gone—signifying that Javert had turned the corner, and would no doubt soon vacate the premises.

Yes, indeed, he had left Monsieur Madeleine much to pore over that night.