Title: Bal des Sauvages
Work ID: 44864356
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Anonymous Sex, Masks, Madeleine Era, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Biting, Multiple Orgasms, Coming Too Quickly
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
The building in front of him was a club that had seen better days. In fact, it looked like it had been closed for years, signs nearly unreadable and paint peeling. While there was some light spilling outside, the windows were covered so that it was impossible to see what was going on inside.
Probably exactly what was intended.
Javert checked the fit of his mask in the rearview mirror one last time, then headed inside.

Work text:

From his window in the red brick house occupied by the municipal police of Montreuil-sur-Mer, Javert had a perfect view of the church of Saint-Saulve.

Not that there was a reason for him to watch the church. Nothing much ever happened in Montreuil, and the events that demanded his attention—drunk teens climbing the ramparts or the occasional accident in the narrow streets—had never forced him to pay the church a visit.

Still, there was one man who was visiting the church unusually often. Monsieur Madeleine, the mayor of the town, could be found sneaking into the church during what Javert assumed was his lunch break almost every day. Madeleine appreciated having a few quiet moments to gather his thoughts, Javert had once overheard him telling someone, although the idea had always made Javert scoff.

Of course, there was no reason to suspect Madeleine was lying about his little prayer breaks. The man was a little eccentric, but highly respected. He owned a large house with a garden in the Rue de Paris and had almost single-handedly built the small town’s largest industry: the production of nettle fiber, a sustainable and ecologically friendly alternative to cotton or polyester.

Madeleine had won several awards, and the local paper never tired of reprinting the photo of the mayor shaking the hand of Emmanuel Macron. There were even rumors that Madeleine was supposed to have been awarded the Legion of Honour, but had declined.

If that rumor was true, what reason could there be to decline such a prestigious medal?

There was something off about the man. That certainty had been niggling at the back of Javert’s mind for several years now.

The mairie was situated only a few steps from the church, just out of view from Javert’s window. As Javert stared out at the street, lost in thought, he suddenly saw a familiar figure appear. The mayor was taking the few steps to Saint-Saulve’s entrance with an absent look on his face.

What could the man possibly be thinking about?

Perhaps the traffic management app open on his screen right now, Javert thought uncharitably. Madeleine was organizing yet another charity event, which meant Javert and his colleagues would have to close a few streets and figure out a way to deal with traffic.

Javert’s phone buzzed in his pocket, reminding him it was time for lunch. He rose, switching off his screen when he remembered that there was something he wanted to do during his break.

Half an hour later, he'd had a quick lunch and was eying the windows of Fileuse de Verre, a small jewelry boutique in the Rue du Général Potez, only a minute’s walk from his office. He’d walked past the shop a thousand times but had never felt even the slightest interest in entering. The jewelery was gaudy: big, colorful stones and new-agey twirls of silver. The sort of thing women were into, he assumed, since that was mostly who he saw enter and leave the shop.

Then his eyes fell onto a curled length of leather that twisted into a circle, held closed with a large, silver buckle.

Now there was something he could see himself buying. How would that leather look like encircling a throat? There was no way to attach a leash to the collar, but Javert didn’t need that—just the thought of someone wearing it for him was enough.

A moment later, Javert’s sudden interest deflated just as quickly as it had appeared when he realized with some embarrassment that Fileuse de Verre wasn’t actually selling leather collars now. It was only a leather belt, which someone had looped around itself for display.

No difference, he told himself. A man could dream, but it wasn’t as if he had anyone who’d put it on for him.

With a deep breath, he entered, a bell announcing his arrival. There was a man at the counter, paying for his purchase, and when he turned, Javert froze.

Just his luck to run into the mayor in this place.

“Javert.”

Madeleine looked just as surprised as Javert. In his hand, he held a mask.

Javert’s blood ran cold.

“Also here for this?” Madeleine raised the mask with one of those infuriating smiles, as if to mock Javert.

The mask was black, designed to cover the upper half of the face, with a few black feathers glued to it.

“You are planning to attend the masked ball, aren’t you?” Madeleine asked when Javert didn’t answer.

Masked ball…

Javert's heart started again as relief flooded through him.

Of course. Part of that whole event Madeleine had planned was a masked ball. It sounded ridiculous, but would probably appeal to the sort of people choosing to attend one of the mayor’s charity events in the first place.

“I was looking at one of the belts in the window,” Javert said. “Still going over the traffic arrangements for the evening. I’m afraid that will keep me too busy for the ball.”

Not that he’d be seen dead at one of those, even if he'd taken the whole week off. Although, who knew what Madeleine might get up to while hiding behind a mask…

“I have a few more belts if you’d like to look at them,” Paola, the owner of the store, said. “I’ll see you at the ball, monsieur le maire.”

It took Javert ten minutes of pretending to be interested in the various belts Paola brought out for him before he at last managed to extricate himself from her when another customer entered the store.

Javert used his chance to move to where a small display of masks had been arranged. He took hold of one of the black feather masks the mayor had bought and eyed it thoughtfully.

It was one of the simpler designs, but not really what Javert had had in mind. Most masks were more garish, many of them looking as if Paola had dipped them in glue and then in large vats of glitter. Others were embroidered with gold thread or had large, fake diamonds glued to them.

Maybe he’d have to order one online after all, Javert thought before his fingers encountered a mask at the bottom of the pile. The mask felt smooth against his fingertips, the only decoration swirls raised like a relief. Unfortunately, when he pulled it free from a tangle of lacy masks, he saw that it was painted gold—no glitter, at least, but he still couldn't see himself wearing a golden mask. Not for the purpose he was looking for, at least.

Still, it looked nice. Simple. And if he were to get a can of black spray paint...

***

Javert wasn’t really the type to go out much. Easier to stay home and watch porn, and much fewer complications that came with being part of the municipal police and working in a small town like Montreuil where the dating pool was abysmally small and everyone knew everyone else.

Not that he was that interested in dating.

The times when the idea of porn didn’t appeal, he’d find someone to pick up in a bar in one of the nearby larger towns. He’d made sure to stay away from Arras where he might run into someone who knew him, but Amiens had a couple of bars situated in the small streets between Notre-Dame d’Amiens and the river Somme, was only an hour’s drive away, and—most importantly—not in Pas-de-Calais. It decreased the chance of one day finding himself standing in a courtroom and recognizing the man in front of him.

Today, even though he’d dressed up for a night out, Javert didn’t drive into Amiens’ old town. He wasn’t going to Le Red&White, the only gay bar in town. Instead, he followed his GPS to an address further south. Cyril, a guy he'd hooked up with a few times, had talked him into this. Apparently he knew someone and thought this would be right up Javert’s alley. Javert had initially scoffed, but he couldn’t deny that at this point, he’d found himself looking forward to it for the past few weeks.

A masked event. Not the sort of masked ball the mayor was organizing, but rather featuring a lot more nudity and a lot more sex, or so Javert had been promised. He’d been told that one could only get an invitation if an existing member vouched for the new person.

Which was probably where Cyril came in.

It all was a bit ridiculous, but lately he was also tired of getting off to porn. At least with this sort of event, he knew that everyone else was also looking for sex instead of a date.

Javert put on his mask in his car. The address he’d been led to was in an industrial area, which meant that at this time of night, the streets were completely empty.

The building in front of him was a club that had seen better days. In fact, it looked like it had been closed for years, signs nearly unreadable and paint peeling. While there was some light spilling outside, the windows were covered so that it was impossible to see what was going on inside.

Probably exactly what was intended.

Javert checked the fit of his mask in the rearview mirror one last time, then headed inside.

***

It was exactly what Javert had imagined he’d find. There were people, mostly half-naked, some in ridiculous outfits and some, like Javert, opting for something that wouldn’t embarrass them if they ended up in a traffic stop.

In Javert’s case, this meant black jeans and a loose, black shirt he opened once inside to reveal the leather underneath.

There was music playing, people dancing on the dance floor, and a bar where Javert almost immediately ran into Cyril, who’d hooked him up with the invitation.

“Knew you’d like this better than Le Red&White,” Cyril said with a grin. His arm was slung around the waist of a man who wore one of those masks that looked as if its owner would find golden glitter in his ass crack for weeks to come.

“Head downstairs to the basement. That’ll be more your thing.”

There was a stair leading downstairs, and a huge, hulking guy guarding it who looked Javert over before he let him pass.

“Mask stays on at all times, remember,” he grunted.

Javert took this for a sign that this was where it got interesting. Good. That was what he was here for, after all.

The downstairs area was indeed more to his liking. He knew it as soon as he turned the corner.

Before him spread a low-ceilinged room, dimly lit. There was no bar here, but several small groups of people gathered here and there.

One such group was sitting in a circle of armchairs. In the middle of the circle, a man was on his knees, and, judging by the slow, rhythmic bobbing of his head, sucking someone off.

Javert’s hand was on the fly of his jeans before he knew what he was doing. His dick had jumped to aching hardness at nothing more than the sight of the stranger's shoulders—broad shoulders, muscular arms, a hint of brown hair that slightly curled at the ends.

How many men with brown hair that curled just a little were there in Pas-de-Calais?

Hundreds of thousands, Javert told himself, as he had so many times before. But still he couldn’t stop staring, his tongue dry and his dick aching when he pressed the heel of his palm to it.

One of the men noticed his interest and nodded at an empty armchair that completed the circle. Javert listened to the music swell and ebb around him as he moved closer, unable to look away, hypnotized by the sight.

The music that filled the basement sounded like the soundtrack for a sci-fi movie—a deep, ominous bass Javert felt pulsating in his stomach more than he could hear it, the sound of waves lapping at a beach and high, vibrating harmonies that swelled from nothing to a near-climax before fading away again.

The light was pulsating, too. There was a dim glow coming from light panels above and candles crammed into every corner—LED candles, Javert saw with professional relief, so there was no worry about accidentally starting a fire.

Whoever organized this didn’t have much of a budget, perhaps, but they'd certainly put some effort into it. And it was working.

Javert felt himself walking forward as if in a dream, setting one foot before the other, his eyes unblinking on the back before him as he made his way into the circle. He held his breath as he finally came to face the man, only to realize with a sudden exhalation of disappointment—or perhaps relief—that the kneeling man was wearing a mask like everyone else.

The light was too low to make out any of his features, but when Javert slid into his armchair, gritting his teeth as he unzipped his jeans and freed his dick, he could see that there was something familiar about the man’s mask. There were no fake jewels glued to it and no glitter that he could see—but there was something soft and strangely shapeless around the edges.

Feathers, Javert thought with a quick, in-drawn breath.

His dick pulsed against his fingers. Could it be…

No. Impossible. He’d seen at least three people upstairs with the same mask. Paola had no doubt bought them from a wholesaler who provided half of France with the same selection of cheap masks.

The sound of dripping water entered the swell of chords. Javert kept his eyes on the stranger’s mouth, which was glistening even in the half-dark. When the music receded for a moment, Javert could hear soft, wet sounds, the man’s mouth spread open wide.

Impossible, Javert thought again, squeezing his dick a little too hard, but even the moment of discomfort didn’t help him focus.

The man in the chair closest to him reached out for something, then dropped it into Javert’s hand. A condom, Javert saw when he rubbed it between his fingers. He gave the man a nod, keeping the foil package in his hand as he watched the guy getting sucked off finish.

The stranger on his knees before them moved on to the man who’d given Javert the condom.

There was something about the kneeling man that had caught Javert’s attention from the moment he first saw him. This close, it should have been easy to realize that this was indeed a stranger Javert hadn’t met before—but there was something, something about him that made it impossible not to think of the mayor.

It wasn’t the brown hair. It wasn’t the broad shoulders that even the loose shirt the man wore couldn’t hide. It certainly wasn’t the sinful, glistening lips—the mayor’s mouth had never looked that red and swollen, and despite his misgivings about the man, Javert couldn’t help but feel a twinge of guilt to think of his superior in such a way.

There was another man, though… A man he hadn’t seen in many years, from back when he’d still been a prison guard, first in Saint-Roch, then La Farlède.

Jean Valjean had been all powerful muscle and sullen eyes. His hair had been cropped short. He’d certainly never looked as peaceful and at ease as the man currently kneeling before them.

No, Jean Valjean had been a dangerous man. A brute. He’d never have kneeled and leaned forward, wet lips parting with an eagerness that made Javert’s cock throb painfully, swallowing a masked stranger’s cock with slow elegance.

It was probably the weird lighting and the insidious sci-fi soundtrack chords vibrating all around Javert that made it seem so meditative. As if this was some sort of ritual for the man before him.

Absolutely ridiculous, Javert told himself, stroking himself absentmindedly as his eyes lingered on those swollen lips. Jean Valjean would never. Not like this.

And the mayor… Well, the mayor liked meditative kneeling well enough, didn’t he? But he had Saint-Saulve for that. No way would Montreuil’s saintly Madeleine ever be found in a place like this.

Javert watched as the man next to him finished. They all had to be regulars, he thought, watching when the man’s hand came to rest on the kneeling man’s nape. He gently stroking his hair for a moment before he rose.

Yes, they had the look of people who’d done this plenty of times. They knew what they came here for.

And now it was Javert’s turn.

The insistent throb of need intensified when the man turned a little. Just one small shuffle on his knees, and he was in front of Javert.

Javert found himself staring down at that bent neck, the hair at the nape a little damp, curling slightly.

Could it be…?

Impossible, he told himself again. Don’t you fucking ruin this, or it’ll be another week until you have time to hook up with someone.

The stranger’s head slowly rose, and Javert realized he was still holding the small foil package between his fingers. He rubbed it contemplatively as he stared down at the man before him.

There was something familiar about him, now that Javert could see his face. The mask hid most of it, of course, and that swollen, red mouth was soft and vulnerable in a way Jean Valjean’s had never been.

But his eyes… Ah, his eyes. The stranger looked at him from behind the mask as if he felt that same strange pull Javert had felt when he’d first seen him.

They kept staring at each other for a moment. It was hard to look away from the man's mouth, and Javert's dick was certainly eager for it.

Still. There was something on the stranger's face that made Javert feel unsettled. In the room’s twilight, it was difficult to make out emotion. Hadn't there been a moment of shock when the man had first looked up at him? Hadn't there been a millisecond of recognition?

The music swelled around them, a single note that grew and grew until it vibrated inside Javert while the man who'd just got sucked off walked past them. When Javert looked around, he saw he was the last one left of the circle. Everyone else had gone. There were a few other small groups down here in the basement, but Javert had no interest in them.

How could he, when everything in him ached to feel that perfect, swollen mouth around his cock.

Javert’s fingers tightened around the condom. Then, with the note fading away to nothing but a low hum he felt more in his stomach than he could hear it, he reached out and rested a finger against the other's mouth.

"I want to fuck you," Javert said in a low voice, his eyes on the man's, intent now.

If Javert’s suspicions were true—and he knew they weren't—there was no chance in hell he'd agree—

The man considered for a moment, then nodded and rose. He moved slowly, elegantly, and Javert once more felt like he was sleepwalking when he followed him through the eerie illumination to an alcove that opened behind one of the light panels.

There was a curtain for privacy. Javert pulled it closed behind him. He wouldn't usually have cared that much, but everything about this encounter had been unsettling enough that he wanted to keep this to himself.

There was a table in the alcove, and someone had thoughtfully provided lube.

It took no more than his hand against the stranger's back and the lightest of pressure for him to bend over the table, the shirt he wore pulling up to reveal firm, round buttocks.

"Fuck, you're hot," Javert muttered as he ran his fingers over the stranger's ass.

The man shivered when Javert let his finger stray into his crack, thighs spreading apart.

Javert had to swallow.

Even in the little alcove, he could feel the music vibrate through his body, chords of strange harmonies interspersed with dripping water that made the whole thing feel even more like he was trapped in a dream.

His aching dick was real enough though. Javert had to take a deep breath before he smoothed the condom over himself, then slicked himself up with lube.

The man's body felt warm and strong when Javert pressed against him. The alcove was lit only by flickering LED candles, but Javert was too overwhelmed by sensation to keep telling himself that it was the eerie music and lighting that was making him see things.

What did it matter? As he pressed against the stranger's hole and then pushed inside, the bent back in the white shirt transformed into the broad back of a man in Saint-Roch, muscles straining as he worked out with weights.


Fuck.


Javert groaned, hesitating for a moment, then allowed himself free rein as he drew back a little, only to slide all the way back inside with one thrust.

The stranger moaned, muscles tensing against him. Javert nearly came then and there as in his mind, the dark-haired head lifted and sullen, burning eyes stared at him.

Jean Valjean.

Javert ran his hand up the stranger's side, listening to his panting breaths as he began fucking him in earnest. Maybe this was what he'd needed all along. Maybe he just needed to fuck those thoughts out of his mind and he'd finally be able to stop thinking about that man.

Maybe, if Javert just allowed himself to pretend that this was Valjean—Jean Valjean in Amiens for some reason, in a mask in a secret nightclub, eagerly sucking off strangers—Javert would finally get over whatever it was that had allowed thoughts of that man to haunt him for years.

Javert’s own breath came in panting gasps now. The stranger—no, Jean Valjean—was moving against him, little groans escaping him with every thrust.

How would Javert even have managed to get Valjean like this? Surely there was no way he'd have ever been able to fuck Valjean back in Saint-Roch. Even if Valjean had wanted it, the way the man beneath him did.

Unless... Valjean had tried to escape several times. Had come really close once or twice. What if he'd tried to distract Javert with sex? Or tried to buy his freedom, surprising Javert with those hot, sullen eyes, glaring at him even as he bent over a table.

Maybe he’d turn his head to stare at Javert as Javert unzipped his aching cock and pressed it against his hole. No condoms, just skin against skin as Javert fucked him until those sullen eyes closed and Valjean started moaning...

"Ah, fuck," the stranger gasped as he suddenly shuddered against Javert, his hole tightening around Javert's dick.

When Javert slid his hand around, he found the other’s stomach slick with come.

"Sorry.” The man’s cock jerked against Javert’s fingers. "Been a while."

"Want me to stop?" Javert asked breathlessly, although he was still buried deep inside the man, his own balls aching with need.

The stranger shook his head. He exhaled, then turned his head a little, resting it on his outstretched arms as his body relaxed against Javert's.

"Go on."

Fuck. There it was again. Something about the curve of that neck. The hard muscle Javert could see, the vulnerability of the pose, the shirt that clung to the man’s skin, half-translucent with sweat…

Javert tried to go back to thoughts of Jean Valjean, but it was impossible.

All he could think of was Madeleine, head bent as he sat in a pew, the light that fell in through the stained glass window of Saint-Saulve making his mustard-colored jacket glow as if Javert were looking at a painting.

Not that Javert was in the habit of sneaking into Saint-Saulve. Still, a few times he hadn’t been able to resist curiosity and suspicion, watching the mayor from behind a pillar, and silently leaving again before the priest could catch him and start preaching.


Madeleine.


Javert slid his slick hand up the stranger’s hip, stifling a groan against his neck as he thrust harder.

Madeleine. Madeleine with his charity drives. Madeleine with his infuriating politics. Madeleine, who wouldn’t even let Javert fine old Monsieur Meurisse who kept parking in the no-parking zone, claiming his leg made it difficult to park further away to visit his daughter when Javert heard a hundred similar excuses every week. Rules were rules, after all, and if you allowed small things to pass, worse would soon follow.

Not that Madeleine cared.

No, all Madeleine did was smile at Javert’s arguments—always smiling at Javert, as if he had no idea that Javert was watching him. So slippery, always evading him—but ah, Javert had him now, right here beneath him. This time, Javert would have the truth out of him. This time, Madeleine wouldn’t get away…

Javert groaned against the stranger’s throat, muffling the name that threatened to escape just in time as his hips jerked helplessly forward.

There was something about the man’s scent, something about the taste of his sweat—maybe simply something about the way he felt against Javert’s body—that overwhelmed all reason.

Javert’s teeth scraped against the skin of his throat, then bit down hard enough that the stranger arched against him, head tilting back as if inviting more. As pleasure overwhelmed Javert, he felt the man coming a second time with a helpless, aching moan, the tight body tightening even further until it felt as if Javert’s climax was forced out of him.

It took a few moments for Javert to recover. He was still panting, his cock already softening when he pulled out.

There was a bright red mark on the stranger’s throat. The sight made Javert feel breathless—and slightly guilty, as if he’d really had the audacity to mark his superior with a hickey.

With shaking fingers, Javert managed to get rid of the condom, watching from the corner of his eye as the man straightened.

There really was something of the mayor about him. Watching the slow movement, strong limbs pliant with satisfaction, Javert couldn’t help but remember the graceful lines of the mayor’s neck as he bent his head for prayer.

But Madeleine kneeled in church, not at dingy, underground sex parties in Amiens.

"Sorry about that," Javert muttered, embarrassed. "I don't usually, uh... get carried away like that."

Despite his unease, now that he was no longer buried inside the stranger, he couldn't quite take his eyes off his throat.

Fuck. Even now, the sight left him breathless. He’d certainly learned something about himself today. Although he doubted he'd get to repeat that experience anytime soon.

The stranger pushed himself off the table at last and turned around. Despite his strength, he looked a little shaky and overwhelmed, and Javert felt a wild surge of pride.


I did that to him.


"It's all right," the man murmured, his voice still rough. He raised a hand to his throat, fingertips grazing the bruise Javert had left, and swallowed.

"That was impressive." Javert nodded at the man's softening cock and the mess on his belly. "Never seen anyone come twice like that."

He didn’t say at our age.

Even so, the stranger's smile looked a little forced on his masked face.

"Thanks," he said simply and turned away to clean up. A moment later, he left without another word—probably eager to leave the place, now that he had what he'd come for.

With a sudden stab, Javert remembered the stranger hadn't talked at all when he'd stumbled across him in that circle of chairs. Maybe that was his thing. Anonymous, masked sex with no talk.

Javert suddenly felt angry and a little embarrassed at himself. Wasn't that also what he'd come here for?

One reason he hated the idea of going on dates so much was that all the talking required seemed so pointless when all he really wanted was to get off with another guy, and then return to his apartment for some peace and quiet.

Jerôme, his co-worker, had kept trying for years to set him up with someone. Javert had no words to express just how much he loathed those dull evenings in Le Douglas he'd allowed Jerôme to talk him into before he'd just blankly refused to even consider the idea of ever hooking up with someone in Montreuil again.

So why was this guy different?

Javert rubbed his palms over his jeans, then sighed, feeling strangely deflated. The sex had been the best he'd had all year—but damn, for the first time in a long time, he really wished he knew the stranger's name.

Then he perked up, remembering who was sitting at the bar upstairs and knew all the gossip.

The view upstairs hadn't changed much. Cyril was still sitting by the bar.

Unfortunately, that was where Javert's luck ended.

"I mean, it's sort of the point of all this, isn't it?" Cyril said with a shrug, pointing at his mask. "It's against the rules. And even if it weren't—he's been around for a while, but I don't know him or his name. He's like you." Cyril smirked. "Never talks. Arrives and goes downstairs. Leaves after he's had what he came for."

"Fuck," Javert muttered, then felt embarrassment rise inside him when Cyril snickered at him.

"What, is this some sort of Cinderella thing? Did you find your true love only for him to run? Didn't think you had it in you. If you're quick, maybe you'll find his shoe on the stairs."

"Fuck you," Javert said with feeling.

On the drive back to Montreuil, he couldn't stop thinking of the stranger's neck. It had looked remarkably like the mayor's, hadn't it?

At this time of night, Javert could make the journey from Amiens to Montreuil in under an hour, the A16 for once mostly deserted.

He tried his best to banish all thoughts of the mayor from his mind. He knew it was ridiculous. Madeleine would never.

It was true Madeleine wasn't married, and he'd never been seen going out with a woman, but even if it turned out that Madeleine was gay, as some suspected, there was no way in hell Javert would find him at a masked sex party in Amiens.

At most, the mayor had a boyfriend who lived in some stylish apartment in Paris—a bookseller or a gallery owner or someone like that. Someone who had no interest in small town politics and preferred to stay out of the picture.

Not that Javert could blame him, because he'd suffered through enough of Montreuil’s so-called social scene thanks to Jerôme.

Javert took the Berck exit, home just eight kilometers away. There wasn’t a single car at the toll station when he passed through. The D901 stretched straight ahead, nothing but fields to the left and right.

When he reached the town, instead of turning left to get to the Rue de Paon where he rented a small apartment, he continued on. He carefully kept his mind blank as he drove through Montreuil's empty streets until he reached the mayor's house in the Rue de Paris.

The spot where Madeleine usually parked his car was empty.

Javert stared at the dark windows, thinking once again of the black-feathered mask in the shop and the graceful arch of Madeleine's bent neck.

"Ridiculous," he murmured to himself.

So what if the mayor wasn't home? Maybe Javert had been right after all, and there was a secret boyfriend in Paris.

Or maybe the mayor of Arras had invited Madeleine to dinner. Maybe Madeleine was visiting the priest, the two of them staying up late to come up with some new, ridiculous festivity that would make traffic planning a headache, just to keep Javert on his toes.

Javert shook his head, annoyed at himself and his thoughts. He might not trust Madeleine, but the man was still his superior. Bad enough that he'd spent the evening fantasizing about him while fucking a stranger.

So the guy he'd fucked was clearly working out, a little shorter than Javert, and had short, slightly wavy brown hair. How many thousands of people fit that description in Pas-de-Calais alone?

Go to bed, he told himself. You're being ridiculous.

Five minutes later, when he'd finally made it back to his empty apartment, he was tired enough that he fell asleep with no further troubling thoughts about the mayor and the neck he'd left bruised.

***

"Javert."

For God's sake.

Javert clenched his teeth as he inclined his head at the mayor's greeting. Why'd he have to run into him here? Wasn't Madeleine usually spending lunch time in Saint-Saulve?

"Come to check out our preparations for the next weekend?" Madeleine asked with that calm, infuriating smile of his.

For some reason, Madeleine always smiled. The more Javert suspected him, the happier the mayor seemed to see him.

Javert tried to shake off the thoughts that weren't leading anywhere.

"Just going for a walk," Javert said, when the truth was that one of his neighbors had seen him return late at night and told Jerôme, who was having a field day trying to figure out if Javert was dating again and if so, who.

"What do you think?" Madeleine turned, gesturing at the ramparts that still circled this part of town the way it had back in the 16th century when it had protected the city from attacks.

They'd dressed it up for the mayor's charity thing. There were flags here and there, a few stalls that would no doubt sell wine and food, and a fire pit.

It probably would look nice at night. Mostly because everything looked better at night, illuminated by fire.

"Don't worry, Javert," Madeleine said as if he'd read his mind. "The stairs will be well lit. We want people to have fun."

"And you think people will have fun wandering around here at night wearing masks, pretending they're Marie Antoinette?" Javert still wasn't convinced, although he didn't doubt Madeleine had sold enough tickets.

Still. Why bother paying so much money for what looked like a second-rate LARP when you could just go to Amiens's new masked, underground sex club?

Of course, there was the fact that except for Javert, no one in Montreuil had an invitation. At least he hoped so. And probably also because no one except him would want to explore a masked, underground sex club, even if Amiens was really just as provincial as Montreuil.

"It's for charity, Javert," Madeleine said gently. "And I think it will be quite exciting. People like a chance to dress up. Not much opportunity around here to wear a mask and meet a stranger at a ball, is there?"

Javert froze, thinking again of the mask with the black feathers he'd seen Madeleine buy—the same mask the stranger in Amiens had worn.

The same mask that was probably sold all over France in every costume store. No, he was definitely imagining things.

"Looks like you're in the process of changing that, monsieur le maire," Javert said, his eyes drawn towards Madeleine's throat.

Today, Madeleine was wearing a white shirt with a green linen blazer.

Javert moistened his lips as he stared at the patch of visible skin. Madeleine had left the top button unbuttoned. And he was close—so close that all Javert had to do was to reach out and grab hold of the opening of his shirt.

One tug, and Javert would know. All that stood between him and the truth was the thin, warm cotton of the mayor's shirt.

Madeleine's gaze rested on Javert with a strange heaviness.

Did Madeleine know what Javert was thinking? Was Madeleine thinking the same? Was he perhaps even now remembering the past night, the stranger in the black mask who'd shown up and taken him to that alcove, had fucked him over a table and done it well enough that Madeleine had come twice?

Madeleine took a step closer. His eyes were wide and dark—dark like the eyes hidden behind the mask last night.

If Javert reached out now, if he clasped Madeleine's shoulder and let his thumb stray just a little beneath the jacket, rub it gently against his throat still covered by his shirt where a patch of red, sensitive skin was probably hot and aching even now...

Madeleine's head tilted back a little, as if in invitation.

Javert's heart was pounding in his chest. With sudden shock, he realized that he'd lifted his hand, had reached out, had almost dared to touch the mayor, his superior.

He swallowed and changed direction at the last moment, brushing at the fabric covering the mayor's broad shoulders.

"A leaf," he said in explanation, and then hastily took a step back. "Excuse me, monsieur. I should return to work."

He felt Madeleine's eyes on him all the way back to the stairs that led down from the ramparts.