Title: Guard's Law, Con's Heart
Work ID: 45069964
Author: Xythia
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Evil Author Day, Evil Author Day 2023, Post Trial of Arras, Alternate Universe - BDSM, Implied/Referenced Rape/Non-con, Aftermath of Torture, Toulon Era (Les Misérables), Enemies to Lovers, Emotionally Compromised, Angst and Hurt/Comfort, Javert does not understand emotions, Mix of Movie and Brick canon
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 6/6

Summary:
Javert should have known that any plan concerning Jean Valjean would go awry. Instead of acquiring the information about a hidden treasure, Javert ends with something else entirely.

Work text:


Toulon 1823



 



If there was one town in all of France Chief Inspector Javert would prefer never to set eyes on again, it was Toulon. Montreuil-Sur-Mer was a distant second contender. Neither the prison complex itself, the harbor, the prison hulks, nor the bustling town held good memories. Of course, this wasn’t what he had revealed or offered as a protest when his superiors had ordered him to visit the Bagne.



He had bowed deeply, murmured his acceptance, and then done his best to organize his unofficial penance in the two days he had been given to prepare for this journey.



And it was, indeed, a penance of sorts. His patron, M. Chabouillet, had taken him aside before they had joined Grisquet in his office for his new orders and cautioned him about keeping his wits about him.



Persons of higher authority and public ambitions hardly appreciated being openly proven wrong about politically delicate issues, like the real identity of a popular mayor. Superiors especially did not appreciate such slaps to the face coming from a nobody with a questionable pedigree and uncomely disposition: what a surprise.



Why, the king himself had showered Madeleine with accolades, and offered him the medal of honor! That such important personages had been deceived and made fools of was a disgrace. The speculation that they would have preferred to keep the ruse alive was galling. But it was disloyal to entertain such thoughts, surely.



Javert would have preferred if Grisquet, his immediate superior, had the forthrightness to chastise him openly. Even an official corporal punishment would have been endured more easily. Any Dominant of substance and integrity — and Javert prided himself on being such a Dom — would gladly take his licks for a disciplinary matter and avoid the black mark of an official reprimand in his permanent personnel file.



It also couldn’t be denied that a superior taking their displeasure out on an underling’s ass at dawn in the punishment court with a paddle (or a lash, if the infraction warranted it) for up to twenty licks tended to calm them down as well as drive the point home, in Javert’s experience. It hadn’t happened often to him in his career. Not in the last few years.



Javert was glad, in hindsight, that Madeleine hadn’t taken him up on his offer to be punished by the mayor’s hand. That, on top of being duped for so long, would have been unbearable. Thinking about it still made Javert clench his fists, and he could barely leash his temper.



Javert leaned more against the side of the swaying carriage, pointedly ignoring the lively conversations of his travel companions. The landscape outside had to serve as a proxy target for his glaring.



Yes, this was indeed penance, an earthly purgatory of sorts, much harder to endure than a few lashes. He would have taken the pain and humiliation gladly - instead of being caught in a relatively small, moving, and odorous space with five other passengers, all of them of submissive orientation and much too interested in him after they had taken note of the dark hue of his cravat. He suspected that some of the posturing and stories, ostensibly directed at their companions, were designed to impress him.



They were on the last leg of the journey, and none too soon for Javert’s taste. If that silly goose across from him was going to repeat every minute detail of the ornate plate her Dominant had presented to her one more time, he would not be able to hold his tongue anymore. There should be an official rule for travel carriages about not being allowed to assault your travel companions with sheer utter stupidity. He hadn’t appreciated the speculative glances the clique had sent in his direction. Or the barely hidden and unoriginal giggling conjecture regarding the correlation between the size of his hands and the size of other body parts of interest.



Perhaps he should have returned the unasked-for gift of unpleasantness. He could recount the case wherein a submissive had murdered his Dominant by using the sharpened edges of the plate. They had shared their traditional first meal on as a couple, and then the sub had hacked the Dom to pieces with an axe when the plate had turned out to be too dull for the grisly task. That would have shut everyone else in the diligence up and would have reduced the country Mademoiselles to tears. And silence, hopefully.



With the way Fortune frowned on him at the moment, the chatterbox would turn out to be the daughter of someone important who would have taken offense, and Grisquet would have been even more displeased with him. Javert didn’t want to be sent to a small town in the Alps for his next post, counting cows till retirement.



No, he would fulfill his mission objective as fast as possible and then return to Paris and his actual job. Maybe that blasted convict Jean Valjean, after taking a look at Javert’s expression, would correctly deduce the mood he was in and would tell him the exact sum and location of the treasure.



Yes, that was how it would go down.



Javert’s scowl deepened even further.



The coachman hollered, the horses whinnied, and the carriage rattled to a stop. Javert managed to be the first to descend, courtesy of his glower and sheer offputting presence he used without qualm to his benefit. Then, to the loudly voiced displeasure of the womenfolk, he compounded his sins by snatching his baggage from the roof instead of offering his arm to help them climb down safely.



Baser emotions must have a detrimental influence on higher reasoning. Javert had seen proof of this during his entire career. Really, what else but temporary insanity would have driven these young submissives to drop for him, of all people, the proverbial handkerchief?



He ignored them. He ignored any friendly offer by local citizens to show him the way as well. Luggage in one hand, the other twitching because of the absence of his cudgel, he strode along the streets until he reached the west quay. His feet werte nearly automatically leading him in the right direction until he stopped at the gate that led to the barracks of the prison complex and the huge building with towers on each end that flanked them.



The smell of salt and human despair was heavy in the air, and Javert did his best not to breathe too deeply.



“Halt! State your business,” one of the soldiers guarding the gates hailed him.



“Chief Inspector Javert, here to see Commissaire Renault by order of M. Gisquet, 

prefecture de Paris

.” There was no need to ask for a name in return; guards were interchangeable for the most, Javert knew.



Instead of immediately ordering his colleague to open the gate, the soldier leaned forward to scrutinize Javert’s face. “May I please see your papers?”



That was very proper, and Javert nodded in approval as he handed over his identification and references. He hadn’t expected to be asked inside on his word and uniform alone. . Only when the guard sent someone ahead to the main building instead of letting Javert through did he become restless.



“I thought you would be expecting me. The 

prefecture 

has sent a missive ahead with the overnight diligence. Everything should be in order.”



The soldier handed him back everything. “I apologize, sir, but there was an accident in Lyon. The carriage upended, and two people traveling Imperiale on top died. I have heard that the police are still sorting out baggage. There was heavy rain-“



Javert was aware as he had been forced to endure the bad weather and disagreeable company both for the last two days. The passenger list for his own diligence compartment had been full to capacity with the same people. Javert had ignored his surroundings in favor of brooding. And nobody had ever been stupid enough to try and gossip with the dour cop. This established fact had held true.



“One post bag ruptured. You can probably imagine the mess. Toulon was cautioned that there might be some delays. Or missing letters.”



He had a copy of the missive among the paperwork he carried, that detail would cause no problem, but it would mean nothing had been prepared. Bureaucracy in the Bagne was even slower than outside. This would cost him hours, if not days, he could have avoided.



The soldier that had been sent ahead came back running, offering apologies. Javert passively kept silent beyond an acknowledging nod, and the babble came to a halt. He was escorted to the main office wing. He did not waste attention on checking if anything had changed in the last decade. It was unlikely and unimportant. In all his time as a 

guard de chiourmes

, he had only been called to the office of the 

commissaire 

one time. Otherwise, his direct superior had dealt with handing down orders, as well as chastisement or praise.



Commissaire Tibeus Renault, 

Chef des Services des chiourmes,

 was waiting for him and offered him a polite greeting and a chair.



They looked at each other, two experienced law enforcement officers taking each other’s measure while making polite conversation.



Renault was a tall, slender man of military bearing, impeccably dressed and coiffed, and comfortably at home behind his massive desk.



“May I please have a minute to read those papers?” It was a politely worded order Javert would never dare refuse.



Once more, Javert silently cursed the idiot driver of the destroyed carriage who had to have taken a corner too fast or done something foolhardy to upend the other diligence. His own coachman had been warned thoroughly about what Javert would do to him if he acted like he was driving a sports phaeton instead of a public vehicle. There was no way the swollen red nose decorating the driver’s face was solely due to cold weather instead of cheap rum.



“Ah, yes, the case of Jean Valjean. The Convict in Mayor’s Clothes, the newspapers called it. He arrived by boat with 

le Chaine

 six days ago, and has been, per procedure, transferred to his permanent chains.” The commissaire thoughtfully rubbed over his chin. “We could have spared you the journey; I have some skilled interrogators on staff. But never mind, you are here now, and I am sure you will acquire the location of the missing money in no time. I wonder why this wasn’t settled before the convict was marched to Toulon?”



Javert tried to keep the expression on his face bland. It wasn’t his place to criticize his superiors. They had given him Valjean’s updated file, which had at least shed some answers he could share now.



Oh, it was hard not to sneer! “The exact number of Madeleine’s personal fortune escaped the initial inquiry. He did pay his taxes correctly, as far as the royal accountants can tell, but with all the excitement about how a convict could have fooled everyone, some things seem to have escaped notice. Nobody was able to tell how he used the profits his factory accrued. He did not need to declare his personal expenditures, and Madeleine had the reputation of wasting much of his wealth on the poor.”



He wouldn’t voice the rather ridiculous rumors that had sprung up in Montreuil-Sur-Mer after the Mayor’s fall from grace. Madeleine having a mistress one town over that bathed in diamonds he had gifted to her was one of the tamer ones.



Renault shrugged his shoulders and fiddled with his ornate pen. “And, if I remember correctly, there was the speculation that the bulk of his fortune was based on him being the head of a band of robbers and that they had absconded with most of the treasure when he was arrested. That is what he was prosecuted for, wasn’t he?”



“Rubbish!” Javert exclaimed. “He is a scoundrel, no doubt, and a blight upon upstanding, law-abiding citizens, but between his documented time at his factories, at the 

Mairi 

- and I had him under personal surveillance, so I should know! - when would he have had the time to play highway robber baron?“ He took a deep breath. “They have caught the real culprits two weeks ago in

 flagrante delicto,

 and, well, long story short, the evidence refuted any connection. The crime has subsequently been purged from Valjean’s records.” Not that there weren’t enough crimes left on that rap sheet, so it did not make much difference.



“And the interest in the missing money has resurfaced. Very well. The best course of action is to immediately inquire about which 

salle 

he has been taken to. As a Green Cap, he should have been put to work in the dry dock, most likely.”



Without waiting for any input from the visitor, Renault rang the bell on his desk three times, and his secretary in turn summoned a young guard who was asked to lead Javert around and help him search for the prisoner. His duty done, Renault reached for the myriad of papers on his desk and dismissed Javert with a polite nod of his head.



“My secretary will see to appropriate lodgings, and he will organize everything else you might need.”



The highest-ranking officer and administrator of this 

Bagne 

had better things to do than personally deal with such things. If there hadn’t been marked interest from the highest office, Renault wouldn’t have spoken to Javert at all.



The young guard led him down the hall of the administrative level. “I’ve heard of this convict. He is kind of famous, no?” he stuttered.



Javert eyed the dark hue of his guide’s neckcloth and nearly rolled his eyes. If this ninny didn’t find a way to be dominant in public life, the 

Bagne 

would swallow him whole. Personal orientation didn’t mean much, if anything at all, on the job if you couldn’t cut it in your chosen profession. Renault, for example, wore the lower cut uniform collar and blinding white cravat of a submissive, but he seemed to be an eminently competent and commanding person.



“Not a kind of fame anyone should strive to achieve,” Javert grumbled and stormed in the direction of the bay and drydock proper without any regard for his new shadow. He had wasted enough time; he knew who he ought to ask for better directions, the 

Capitaine de giourmes.




“Well, yes, but I’ve heard rumors and - some of my comrades mentioned… that is, I’ve overheard something and was wondering if I should have told- well, that is to say, he isn’t at the prisoner quarters or at work on the hulks.”



“The infirmary?” How typical!



“No, not there, either. Eh. Follow me.”



The direction the little idiot took made Javert suspicious. The guards’ barracks? Javert’s eyes nearly flew off his face in astonishment and then lowered again in anticipatory dread.



Why couldn’t it be simple when it came to Jean Valjean?



++++



The first thing that drew his undivided attention was the stark contrast of the prone figures’ white hair against the dark planks that had been used for the floor. The unevenly shorn strands were eyecatching, even wet and filthy.



Javert stared and stopped midstep. That was something he had forgotten about. He had been too furious when he arrested Valjean - one could say his vision had been tinted red with his fury - and minor details like hair color had not been important to note. Javert had delivered his own minute account of the arrest and attached a separate character witness statement about the Madeleine affair in written form for the courts. He hadn’t been called upon to testify in person and thus hadn’t bothered to watch the trial. Everyone had gossiped about Valjean’s hair changing from dark brown mixed with grey to blinding white. It had been a one-day wonder.



One and a half months ago, Javert would have been simply content to never see the con again. The only opinion he would have offered, if asked, was that such a bright hair color would make it easier to catch him if he managed to escape again against all odds.



The second impression that threatened to overwhelm him was the way the air was exceptionally foul. It stank of human waste, blood, and sweat - a truly nauseating miasma.



The floor was filthy, especially around the prone figure in the middle of the room. Disgusting footprints traversed the room and marked the paths taken. Nobody would ever get the wood clean without shaving off a layer or two on top. There was a reason why lawful punishment was usually conducted in an open courtyard or in a tiled room with an inbuilt drain. Javert angrily took a deep breath - and regretted it promptly. Not that this scene here was the result of lawful punishment by any standard known to Javert. He knew for a fact that the rules hadn’t been changed to allow something like this since he had quit and become a policeman.



Someone was choking behind his back, and he could hear stumbling steps leading away, accompanied by choking sounds. It seemed like someone had a delicate stomach, eh?



The duo that had tried to refuse him entry positioned themselves beside the door and observed Javert sullenly.



“We-“



“Silence!” Javert bellowed but did not turn. If he turned to face them now, he would be tempted to do something he might not regret. It took a few breaths more before he could draw on his vast experience in shutting down most of his emotions before he could look at this objectively. He had a duty to perform, a goal to achieve, and it wasn’t, right now, teaching morons how to do their job correctly.



The two responsible guards must have finally cottoned on to his mood because they did their best to be mistaken for statues.



The prisoner was naked, filth his only covering, and he wasn’t chained or restrained. There was no need. He wasn’t in a state that would allow him to stand up under his own power. Scaling walls and running away wouldn’t be possible for a long time either, if ever again. For a second, Javert wondered if he was alive at all, but further observation revealed that the chest was rising and falling laboriously, and he could hear rattling, uneven breathing.



Where was his 

mantile

? Where were his leg shackles? And, he took a closer look, there was no cock ring. Javert couldn’t remember if Valjean had any pain responses, but it didn’t matter; it was against regulations to punish a submissive without a chastity device!



There were three dented metal buckets waiting to be used in a corner of this impromptu torture chamber. One empty, one full of waste, and one full of water. Javert would take bets that it was saltwater from the bay. It was a readily available and useful resource. He shoved down the disquiet that made his stomach cramp and carried the bucket of water back to the half-conscious man on the floor, and upended it over the prisoner.



The reaction was immediate. Valjean bucked off the floor, his body a rictus of hurt, any shout that may have emerged caught in a closing throat until it resurfaced as a pathetic whimper.



Javert pulled off his gloves with angry precision and put them into one of the pockets of his greatcoat. Hands were easier and cheaper to clean than fine leather. He crouched down, took a grim inventory, and finally stilled the squirming prisoner with a firm hand taking hold of his clammy, sweaty neck.



Valjean’s brown eyes blinked, wet and unable to focus. Javert tightened his grip and observed. The only sources of sound in the room were harsh breathing broken up by the impatiently shuffling guards at the door.



The pupils were expanding and then contracting simultaneously in reaction to light before the convict closed them nearly fully. That was a good sign that they hadn’t broken Valjean completely.



Any second now and those treacherous lips would at least, even if they couldn’t articulate eloquently, plead with him, form words. He moved his thumb, subtly checking and massaging the throat he was cradling. Javert’s hands were big enough that he could cover a good half of the convict’s muscular neck. Scars stood in stark relief against discolored skin. New sores would add to the white lines if they were given the time and care to close properly. Less professional fingers had left a dark ring of bruises and swelling tissue behind - another black mark on a list of offenses growing like mold on a damp wall.



Javert waited.



Any time, now, they would return to their accustomed course of interactions.



The convict pleading his innocence.



Pleading for more time to flout the law, as always.



Pleading by daring to address Javert by name in that infuriating way of his - there had always been this faint undercurrent whenever Madeleine had used his rank and name, as if he was secretly mocking him-



Valjean’s eyes finally opened to more than slits, and focused on Javert’s winter grey ones. They regarded each other silently, the former guard scowling, the prisoner hardly breathing.



Where was the hate? Javert’s recall was excellent. He had years worth of memories about Jean le Cric wanting to incinerate Javert with glares instead of looking down like he should. After his disgrace, the judgment, and having to endure 

le chaine

 for a second time, the old burning disgust should have transformed those deceptive soft brown eyes to molten amber coals of hate again.



But against all of Javert’s expectations, they stayed the same warm hue.



These weren’t the eyes of a convict trying to dominate him with pure spite and aggression. He was confronted with the eyes of a martyr, and Javert couldn’t stand the deception- How dare he! These were the eyes of Pére Madeleine, Saint extraordinaire. Javert felt compelled to tighten his hold around the convict’s neck and add to the bruises already there until he would succeed with exorcising Madeleine out of Valjean’s body once and for all.



His hand twitched, just waiting for the mental command to tighten; more he didn’t allow himself. He had more self-control than the guards, despite ample provocation. Javert smiled coldly down and deliberately let his gaze wander to the fresh brand that was declaring to all and sundry who and what this man was. It still stank of cooked human flesh, raw and ugly. “9630. It doesn’t have the same ring as your old number. I am not in favor of branding, but if it were in use in the past, it would have helped me enormously. There is no hiding for you this time. You can’t escape me now.”



“Ask him about the money he hid!” the taller of the disgraces masquerading as guards impatiently demanded.



Javert slowly, deliberately, turned his head. Whatever he read in Javert’sface, the guard gulped and squirmed. The other one, with dark, wet stains on his uniform, like he had at one point handled Valjean not too far in the past, sneered back, challenging the interloper. Javert dismissed the man from his attention as unimportant and instead nodded to the other man who had led him here and who had returned, still gulping and wincing. He was younger than his colleagues, and his dark complexion had acquired an unhealthy grey sheen. It was either the injuries or the smell turning his stomach. Most likely the stench.



Javert inclined his head and gestured with his free hand for the man to approach.



“

Monsieur l’Inspecteur

?”



“Fetch a pitcher of clean water and a cup,” Javert ordered brusquely, and the guard practically fled the room.



Valjean’s trembling increased, and grew jerky. Javert checked his condition. It wouldn’t do for the con to slip his grasp forever because he might once again refuse to follow lawful orders, instead embracing death, the ultimate escape. Javert pressed the palm of his free hand against the sweaty chest, grimacing at the filth. But no, it was warped and nearly unrecognizable, but Valjean wasn’t having a fit; he was laughing. Cracked lips and the swollen tongue behind the selfsame refused to produce more than a pathetic gurgle.



The youngest guard returned with a bang. Literally, the door hit the wall in his haste to cut a corner. He carried the requested items and set them down at Javert’s side.



“Will he be… “ the man searched for the right term and failed miserably. Both Javert and Valjean ignored him, but he went down on one knee near them.



“Can I help with something else? 

Je m’apelle

 Pierre Humbert…” offered the guard softly, unasked.



“No. Not now.” Javert concentrated on filling the cup halfway. Everything looked clean, water and vessels both. He lifted it to his own lips, ignored the eyes that followed every one of his movements, took a sip, and nodded appreciatively. There had been a little bit of vinegar added to the liquid. Humbert wasn’t completely hopeless.



Then he carefully held the cup to Valjean’s lips, tilted it just so to let the water trickle into his mouth. A little bit dripped past, creating a trickle of wastefulness down into the scraggly white beard. Javert huffed and began to run his fingers over the swollen throat, waited until he could feel Valjean swallow, then repeated the process. Again. And again. There was still something left in the cup, but the prisoner pressed his lips together in refusal.



Valjen licked his lips, moistened them. “I beg you, tell me, has Cosette been brought to safety?”



“Hah, it’s always the same song and dance with you, isn’t it? If you aren’t wasting your breath on that whore, you are pleading for her brat.”



“Cosette,” insisted Valjean, his voice rough, lips straining to form the correct sounds.



Why was Javert indulging him? Nevertheless, he answered and told himself that he was only doing it to create false rapport with the con. “I personally retrieved her, which is just as well. If you had done it, you would undoubtedly have wasted money on your fellow criminal. Thénadier was a worse scoundrel than you suspected.”



Valjean turned his head incrementally and leaned harder against the hand steadying him behind his neck. He doubted Valjean would be able to raise his head on his own for long.



“Hm.”



“I arrested him.” No need to elaborate lest Valjean would insist on derailing the conversation further. “I brought the girl to the convent you specified, Petit-Picpus? Come to think of it, the nuns were strangely happy to see her.” A suspicion bloomed, and he should kick himself for not thinking of this sooner. His glare intensified.



“Sent my lawyer. Gave away some; gifted more. Set up a trust. Money spent and bound before conviction is not subject to…” Valjean whispered, barely audible.



“You gave your ill-gotten gains to the Church and the whore’s daughter!” exclaimed Javert and nearly removed his hand. If this was true, then the money was outside the government of France’s reach for good. Nobody, ever, had succeeded in getting money, -a fortune!- back from Mother Church without a fight that wasn’t worth the price.



The infuriating man only smiled his saint’s smile and refused to utter another word, his eyes slowly closing. Or maybe, Javert scowled, even his unnatural endurance had finally run out.



“Ask the 

Chef des Services des chiourmes

 to join us. This situation requires his attention,” he quietly ordered Humbert, pitching his voice in a way that would not reach the agitated guards at the door.



“I will, immediately.”



Javert lowered Valjean’s head to the filthy floor and began examining him more closely. He kept his back to the door to conceal his reactions better. Despite his first impression, the damage wasn’t as bad as he had feared. It looked like his tormentors hadn’t had much imagination, at least, and mainly wailed on Valjean, used a single tail whip incompetently (which they must have gotten or stolen from the punishment court), and kicked him. His hands were in sorry condition; someone had known how much it would hurt to concentrate on them. And the feet were covered in sores upon sores and blisters - a souvenir from 

Le Chaine

 and a month of being herded on foot across France, the only damage not to be accounted to the idiots.



Javert wrinkled his nose in disgust, palmed Valjean’s stomach, and then examined his chapped lips.



Madeleine had hidden his true self behind the slightly unfashionable but clean clothes of an eccentric and harmless man of means. No tailoring had been able to completely mask the solid strength of his chest or the scope of his shoulders, but the cut and fall of Madeleine’s attire had hinted at the beginning of a pouch commonly found on rich bourgeoise bellies, in addition to masking muscles as soft padding on his arms and tighs. A comfortable false softness that lied about how dangerous the body underneath could be. Combined with that damn smile and curling hair, the disguise had nearly been perfect.



Javert could proudly say that he, at least, had never fully bought the ruse. He couldn’t ascertain his suspicions about Valjean’s methods. If there ever had been fat developing on this body, hardship had melted away substance until only the essentials remained. Now, Valjean’s skin was stretched taught and angry with abuse and dehydration over muscles that strained and stood out in long cords and bunched ripples.



As a young guard, fresh and only holding on by the skin of his teeth and a firm hold onto the rule book, Javert had never looked away when he encountered something he thought was crossing the line and not just flirting with it, be it prisoner or guard flouting the rules. He had always dutifully reported to his superiors and that was the end as far as he had been concerned. Who was he to question the wisdom of his betters? Going against the more established and experienced clique of guards wasn’t healthy, and it took discretion and discernment to keep himself safe. Sometimes, often a lot later down the line, he had witnessed his words coming to fruition. A guard dismissed here, a black mark there.



But this was a blatant abuse of power on a new level.



Which was exactly what he pointed out to Commissaire Renault when the officer entered the room. Renault, after a long, thoughtful perusal of the situation, had ordered everyone but Javert to wait outside.



“They are good men.”



Javert reached for one of Valjean’s hands, and raised it to shove it into the light of the lamp and 

Chef des Services des chiourmes

 line of sight. The thumb was visibly out of the socket, and the fingers were swollen, two of them broken. There were no defensive marks like scraped knuckles. “Good men?”



“They must have gotten…overexcited in their desire to produce the needed information and got carried away. It is no secret that this convict might have secreted a huge sum of money away. Someone else might have done this on the track here. Let us transfer the prisoner to the infirmary, I will make a note about it in his file, and he will get extra helpings to his meals for the next month as recompense. If he survives. It’s a pity.”



Javert’s nearly slavish adherence to authority figures, already bruised by them colliding against the unmovable object in the form of Madeleine, feebly tried to make him back down. It sizzled and burned to ash in the fire of his rightful anger.



This officer of high standing, influence, and power over more than three thousand prisoners and hundreds of personnel had just pretended that he wasn’t able to read the age and severity of lash marks and bruises.



Instead of keeping still, Valjean used the pregnant pause between the two officers to insert a quip. “Javert always has been too scrupulous. For a guard,” he murmured.



Javert didn’t know what to do with that compliment wrapped in a blanket insult to every other man who had worn the same uniform as he.



A faint blush crept onto the 

Chef des Services des chiourmes

 cheeks in reaction. The raised chin, daring Javert to disagree further, revealed the simple golden bonding collar wrapped around his neck above the customary leather stock of a law enforcement officer. ‘Forget what you have seen, and follow my lead,’ his expression commanded.



“They have wasted his workforce and created infirmary costs without the hope of speedy recompense via work. I’ve seen this man carry more than three others combined. His injuries, especially his hands, will need a lot of time and care to heal until he can be put to use again. 

If 

everything heals cleanly and infection doesn’t kill him.”



Renault shook his head no. Even appealing to his fiscal side wasn’t working. “Ten years ago, that might have been true. Now? Look at him. This convict is an old man and would not have lasted much longer anyway. He isn’t used to the hardships of the Bagne anymore.”



Renault clearly had no idea about what Valjean was capable of.



Valjean shifted painfully, and slowly pulled up one leg in front of his body to give himself a little modesty. He seemed to be more animated and aware, maybe as a reaction to the tension in the room. Javert watched him from the corner of his eye, his main focus still on the commandant.



Renault broke first. “

Monsieur l’Inspecteur

, I agree with you. To a point. It must be pretty obvious to you and me both that Molin and Lestrange weren’t alone in their unofficial and excessive interrogation scheme. Not possible for them alone if they have worked their shifts without absence for five days. If I give the word to investigate this, I will likely lose not only two, but possibly four or five employees who haven’t drawn any negative attention or issues, if they are similar in dedication and character to those two obvious ones. They aren’t known to be absentees. They aren’t acting slovenly or excessively brutal. They are nearly the cream of the crop when it comes to guards. I will chastise them unofficially and give them additional shifts. But that is as far as I am willing when weighing them against a walking dead man.”



Additional shifts instead of being dismissed in disgrace and charged with dereliction of duty, at least? Javert didn’t know what to say. Nothing non-accusatory, at least. Guards torturing and nearly killing a prisoner who had no power of recourse other than the shield of another man of the law’s conscience - Javert’s! - covered up by the highest-ranking officer of the jail, the ultimate power? It went against everything Javert believed to be just and right. There had been plenty of incidents of abuse of power he had seen in his career, but this was extreme - and for some reason, it hit him hard. Javert bit his tongue.



Something touched his elbow, shielded by the bulk of his body from the view of the other occupant of the room.



Javert looked down. Valjean was tugging at his coat, slowly shaking his head and mouthing ‘don’t’. Cautioned by a convict, the world was upside down! The inspector closed his eyes, counted to ten, and silenced the storm in his heart with ruthless experience. Or tried to.



He wasn’t able to see a way out of this he could live with. He was caught between a rock and a hard place because whatever he did, he would lose. A convict the victim; the highest-ranking guard in Toulon breaking the rules, no, the Law. Javert could go with what his conscience told him to be just and right, but accusations would help no one if they were deliberately ignored. But keeping silent would brand him a coward if that was the direction he chose. His thoughts were uselessly running in circles.



Javert bit harder down on his tongue until he could taste warm, coppery blood.



Another weak tug at his coat sleeve.



He ignored it.



“You might not believe me, Javert, but this is something of a novelty for me, too, in all my years at my post. At least this extent of mistreatment. Additionally, and more importantly, I have orders to keep the scandal around Madeleine contained. Creating a lot of paperwork would be counterproductive.”



Did Renault want to convince Javert that he should let this slide because it would never happen again, that it was an exception? If he lied to cover up this incident, could either of them, Renard and Javert both, be trusted to speak the truth about anything else? Javert dearly wanted to clutch at his hair, the pounding of his heart was making it hard to think.



And why was Renault feeling the need to sway him anyways? The 

Chef des Services des chiourmes 

was so much more influential, his words weighted so much more than the word of a simple police agent like Javert. He tried to discern a clue in the other man’s face, but his attention was again caught by the sight of the golden collar half hidden by the immaculate cravat.



Javert swallowed heavily. He could still taste blood and vinegar on his tongue.



A collar like that, maybe less expensive but, in essence, the same, wasn’t something exceptional. A third of the adult population of France wore them openly to declare their status. Stars, he saw it every morning when he put on the leather vambraces he habitually wore under his shirt on the forearms. A thin, very cheap, black leather collar was wrapped around the left one. It got transferred promptly the few times he had bought new vambraces and had been given to him by the leader of his shift on his first day as a senior guard.



“If there was an alternative….” Javert asked slowly, now fixedly staring at Valjean’s filthy neck. He was feeling adrift without an anchor, the only thing that made him keep his mind, for now, was the faint glimmer of an idea percolating.



“How? Please enlighten me.”



Javert pushed back the left sleeves of his greatcoat, his jacket, and his shirt. There wasn’t nearly enough space to accomplish it, and in the end, he had to tug forcefully, digging with his fingers and tugging the leather strip down. It had resided in a fixed position for so long that it seemed to resist relocation. Javert had been called stubborn more times than he could count, and hardly ever was it meant as a compliment, but here it helped him prevail.



He heard Renault take a deep breath. “Yes, that might work, but you are aware… “ Renault let his words run out.



With the collar dangling from his fingers, he fully turned to Valjean.



“Do you know what this is?” Javert harshly asked and observed the convict’s reaction. 24601 had been a prisoner for a long time. He should have witnessed its use and meaning.



Valjean didn’t disappoint. He nodded, his eyes wide in fear or astonishment, Javert couldn’t say.



The formal, slightly archaic words came to his tongue as if he had listened to them yesterday instead of over a decade and a half ago. “Listen to me closely. If I fasten this around your neck, your security, punishment, and full service in body and mind will be mine to decide and administer. I will stand guard over society as it is my duty. I will guard them against you and do my best to guide you on your path to absolution.” He took a deep breath. “As long as you agree to wear this collar and as long as your sentence lasts.”



Before Valjean could ask questions or declare that Javert had gone insane, another voice began to add more.



“I have only done this a handful of times,” Renault remarked cooly, and came closer until he stood beside the crouching inspector and in full view of the prisoner. “It is my duty as 

Chef des Services des chiourmes

 to witness this collaring under Guard’s Law. I confirm that…” he faltered for a moment. “Former Senior 

Guard des Chiourmes

 Javert has the good standing, continued service as an officer of the Law, and upstanding character to act as Dominant for Prisoner 9630. If the convict, at a later date, should decide that this is no longer his wish, he has the right to appear before a senior officer of the law and demand the collar to be taken off. This will result in a few consequences, the main one being that the convict will be returned to the Bagne of origin, in this case, Toulon.”



They waited. Now it was up to Valjean to decline or accept.



Javert kept a close watch on him, observing the hitch at the end of every breath Valjean sucked into his lungs, every flicker of his eyes.



Finally, Valjean nodded slowly, hesitantly, seemingly more to himself than as the visible sign that he had come to a conclusion, then sought eye contact with Javert. Another nod, more firm and pronounced than the first.



And then Valjean let his head sink back, baring the vulnerable column of his throat fully.



Javert bent forward and carefully fastened the worn black collar. For a moment, he feared that his fingers would fumble and falter, but they were as steady as ever. He didn’t know, couldn’t say if this wouldn’t turn out to be more of a problem instead of a solution for either of them long term.


TBC

Warning: mention of non-con, not between the protagonists and not detailed.

Javert is emotionally constipated and we all know that he has horrible bedside manners and can't spell victim, yes?


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Javert couldn’t help but stare at the black leather circling Valjean’s neck for a solid minute. He knew himself as a solitary creature and had never expected to collar anyone. There had been no fantasies about asking a blushing fresh-faced virgin sub to bend their head and share his life, nor had he ever eyed his submissive colleagues and speculated about a private collaboration. Even the basic first session at a Pleasure House, required for a police officer, had mostly been annoying for him.

And now, here was Valjean, wearing his collar.

For so long, he had hunted this man relentlessly., Now he was firmly in his grasp. And Javert didn’t know how to proceed.

He had never thought beyond seeing him behind bars. That was not part of his duty, not anymore. What now? Javert composed a mental list of basic living arrangements that would be impacted by the collaring. There was a little nest egg, not much. Javert didn’t have any costly vices, and his salary would support an ordinary house submissive as long as they were keeping a frugal lifestyle. Finding an occupation for Valjean was riddled with problems; the proper supervision question alone was giving him headaches.

After years of being irreproachable and struggling to overcome his heritage, he finally had the job and standing he had always hungered for in his grasp. Javert’s beloved job in Paris, the new post as Chief Inspector of the station house, awaited him, and he would be damned if he let this regrettable affair keep him from his duty.

That is, if he wasn’t sacked when his superiors heard about the money being forever out of reach, and how Javert, the man of stone, had collared Jean Valjean instead of reporting success.

But surely that wouldn’t happen, it wasn’t Javert’s fault; he was only the messenger. The thought of losing everything that made him  Javert  was overwhelming. It crept up at him like a sick whisper and he batted it away. He would have to put his trust in justice, like always.

Involuntarily, his eyes traveled over Valjean’s battered body and he winced.

When he looked at the  Chef des Services des chiourmes  for guidance, he noted that the man was caught up in his own contemplations, tapping his long slender fingers against his lower lips and staring at nothing.

“ Monsieur le Commissaire ?”

Renault shook his head and then straightened. “I will see to it that the paperwork for the release of the convict into your care is in order. Rest assured that my report to  Monsieur le Secretaire  will reflect truthfully what happened here.”

“The news of the loss of the money will not be taken lightly or gladly,” Javert couldn’t help but add, his fears still boiling a hair’s breadth under the surface.

“I’m aware. I will point out to the  prefecture  that I am very displeased about the shoddy juridical decisions that bungled this up. If they had done their work, they might have stopped some of the money transfers from happening. Frozen them, or whatever. I am the head administrator of a prison, not a prosecution officer.”

Humbert must have given a detailed report about Valjean’s little financial trick.

“The convicts arrive here after judgment. We do not investigate,” Renault continued, “something of which the prefecture should be reminded.” The smile on his face when he studied Javert didn’t reach his eyes. “As long as your arrest and case record were thorough. You confiscated the accounting books as well as the household accounts, if there were any, and handed them over…?”

Javert bristled, his spine ramrod straight. “My reports are always thorough, on time, and fully accountable!”

“I would have been surprised if they weren’t. Your reputation precedes you, Monsieur Javert. Then, you won’t have a problem, hm?”

There was a knock on the door.

“Enter,” commanded Renault. It was his secretary and the  commissaire  began to make a number of orders straightaway. If the secretary thought them strange, he didn’t show it in his reaction, which was placid and attentive.

The secretary left at a fast clip, and the two conspirators found themselves staring down at the convict, shoulder to shoulder.

“He is in need of a lot of care. It’s a minor miracle that he isn’t running a fever and not fully unconscious,” Renault stated the obvious.

Valjean was staring at their boots, and didn’t show any outward sign that he was paying attention.

“He has always been disgustingly resilient; healthy as an ox and twice as stubborn,” Javert stiffly countered. “He will survive, no doubt, but I want to be on the road to Paris as soon as possible. Will the doctor you have serving in the infirmary help or hinder?'' That might have been a little blunt but what Javert wanted more than anything else at the moment was a moment to himself, and Renault's continued strange behavior was eating away the last of his patience. It was the  commissaire ’s own fault for trying to make him an accomplice in subverting the rules. For succeeding in making Javert an accomplice! Such nonsense created a false intimacy that wasn’t proper at all, Javert could see clearly.

Renault raised an eyebrow in rebuke. “Good sir, I would hope so! I wouldn’t stand for anything else,  je vous asure .”

Javert tilted his head. Physicians of quality generally didn’t choose to head a prison infirmary unless they weren’t able to practice their profession somewhere more reputable. Or, they had strange partialities, some of them rather concerning. Some of the physicians he had met here Javert wouldn’t trust with a cat, never mind a human being. Stars, they were teaching convicts how to pull teeth nowadays, and then letting them loose on the public! He didn’t doubt that the quality of overall medical care had been lowered as well during the last years. Sometimes a naval medic was unable to perform his duties upon a ship due to an injury and was transferred to Toulon, but Javert had witnessed more than one quack.

Apparently, Javert would have to keep a close eye until he knew what to expect.

“A room has been prepared for you on the visitor’s hallway. I will send Doctor d’Ivry to tend to your submissive,” Renault thoughtfully and slowly said, his mouth a displeased slash in his face. “It is better not to directly involve the infirmary. It will make it easier for you to keep control,  n’est pas ?”

“Would you please be so gracious and send supplies like bathwater, medical supplies, and sustenance?”

Renault inclined his head as another sharp rap of knuckles on the door made them turn.

Humbert, the young guard with a weak stomach, entered and saluted his commander. “ Monsieur le Commissaire , the quarters for your guest have been cleaned and equipped for his use.”

“Thank you. Inspector, follow the Sergeant,  s’il vous plait . I will send those guards back here so they can carry him to your rooms. They should be put to more appropriate work if they think they can invent some of their own.”

Oh no, most certainly not. Unsupervised, the imbeciles would finish what they started with their pure incompetency alone. “Thank you, but I will see to it myself.”

“As you wish. I will contact you in the near future; the paperwork, you understand. Excusez-moi.” Renault turned on the heel of his impeccably shined uniform boot and left.

Javert listened with half an ear to the footfall growing fainter and contemplated tactics. The room they were in must have been intended as a sleeping chamber for employees but it was at present unused and devoid of furniture, save one table and a broom. No blankets, no sheets, not even rags. Now, he could either carry a naked man through half the barracks to the entertainment of everyone who might cross his way or-

Javert snarled, and shrugged out of his greatcoat. It was fortunate that his wardrobe had not only been selected for endurance but for a weave that would not stain easily and could be cleaned and mended by himself.

But maybe he should make sure that the convict would survive first? His fingers pressed down on the pronounced ladder of Valjean’s bruised ribs, and he ignored the faint sounds of protest and pain. Nothing moved too badly under the skin, good.

It took a good amount of tugging, angry glares, and whimpers but he had wrapped Valjean up in the warm fabric and over his shoulders in a hold that allowed him to lug the smaller man around. Against the herculean strength of Jean le Cric, nobody could hold a candle, but Javert was anything but weak himself. He couldn’t allow himself to be, and still be able to outrun and wrestle down criminal elements.

“If you struggle, I will let go and you will fall. Hard,” Javert warned his burden, and shoved him a little bit more to the right. His left arm circled around Valjean’s dangling legs, the right grabbed an arm, tugged and stabilized the hold. Standing up was hard, his muscles protested and he had to tighten his hold, but his body complied with his wishes.

“And you, what are you staring at? You’ve got your orders, show me the way to my quarters.” He hoped they weren’t too far away or he might falter and embarrass himself.

The quarters he was led to were the finest ones Javert had ever had assigned to him and held pride of place near the commissaire’s own suite, which meant a good hike and cramping back muscles. These rooms, a small antechamber and the bedroom, would be fit for being the temporary residence of a high-ranking visitor. Javert had expected a modest, clean room without the need to share like in the past, as was proper for his current station. Now he was staring at a large four-poster bed that would support an orgy, bedecked with fine linen in earthy colors and a duvet drawn invitingly down as if to await a weary traveler. Even a thick quilt had been folded and placed on top in case the spring night proved too cold for the sleeper.

Someone had fetched the luggage he had left in the secretary’s office and now his trusty suitcase, a little bit shabby from long use, sat at the foot end of the bed and looked like a wart on a handsome face.

Was this what the path to hell looked like?

There was a massive wooden desk, the high-backed chair matching its style and carvings, various bondage chains and padded leather cuffs hung in a neat display at the far wall.

Humbert politely informed him that he would take any requests for further equipment to the quartermaster.

“I do not see anything amiss, I will inform you if I need anything. Express my compliments to the maître de manoevre.” Javert selected a large enough stretch of open floor and went down on one knee to lay down his burden. Both men exclaimed a grunt, the policeman out of relief, the convict pained. For a reason he didn’t want to contemplate too much Javert didn’t get up immediately and kept one hand on the submissive for a little bit longer.

“The supplies I asked for are on their way?”

“Yes. Should I have the tup filled? Lestrange and Molin have been ordered to haul hot water up here until you are satisfied with their service, even if you want to fill and drain the tub multiple times. Doctor d’Ivry should arrive within the hour, there was an accident at the hulks and he is tending to the injured,” the boy gave his report.

Javert looked around. The tub, a big copper affair with a high back, had been placed in one corner, a paravent with dark leather panels aside to shield from the nosy gaze of people entering the room. It would allow even a man of the inspector’s height to submerge themselves comfortably. There was no way, he eyed his captive, to haul the con, especially wet and slippery, in and out without throwing his back out of alignment.

He caught Valjean staring at the tup with naked longing in his eyes.

“Will you be able to climb out of that thing on your own or with my assistance?” Javert asked, already knowing the answer.

“No,” croaked Valjean.

“Then you’ll have to be satisfied with a sponge bath.”

“Please. I will manage. Somehow.”

Both men’s eyes were drawn to the hands of the convicts and their state. There was no way that he would be able to put weight onto them never mind lift his own body mass out of the water.

“Always lying. Always reaching for things you can’t achieve without cheating. You won’t be able to wash yourself, never mind endure a bath. But the last thing I want is something as filthy as you in this nice clean room and the doctor won’t want his nose offended by the stench that is clinging to you.”

The sound of a door opening and closing a few times penetrated the silence of the room and buckets full of hot water were positioned in Javert’s reach, accompanied by a basket. Humbert had refused the two disgraces entry to the bedroom and insisted on carrying everything for the last stretch, he also carried over the washbasin, reaffirming the opinion that he wasn’t hopeless.

Javert inspected the basket full of supplies. Some of the products were obviously intended for the convict given their poorer quality, and some were for his own use. “That will be all, please wait outside and let the doctor in when he arrives.”

Better not get his clothes dirty now. Frockcoat and waistcoat were discarded swiftly and flung over a chair until he was in shirtsleeves and trousers.

Paris was a Moloch, a city that breathed perfume and sewer filth both in equal measures but Javert had welcomed the lack of brine and desperation. Even the stench of unwashed bodies seemed to be a different, less offputting version when experienced in the capital. The first thing he had bought for himself, as soon as he could afford it, had been a finer, scented soap to get the last of the Bagne out of his nose. He wouldn’t go back to the crude sort, not even if it wasn’t used for his own body. He would still be able to smell the harsher fragrance, with Valjean in proximity.

He selected the lavender bar with a satisfied hum. The scent rose pleasingly and a little tart when he wet it on a washrag. Which was promptly used to soap Valjean’s broad chest.

Valjean’s forehead wrinkled in astonishment and then alarm but he didn’t complain. Javert began to wash him with swift efficiency. Neither man felt the need for conversation. A permanent blush had taken residence on Valjean’s cheeks, the scowl that twisted Javert’s lips was forbidding. Woe bedid the dirt smear that dared to resist his scrubbing. One whole pitcher was needed to battle the grime of weeks before the second one was pulled over, Javert preparing for the next step in his plan of action. He reached for the straight razor.

Valjean’s eyes widened in panic, he tried to get out of Javert’s reach, of course he did. No convict would voluntarily let a guard near them with a razor for grooming after that first time. There is no opportunity to maintain good hygiene while being dragged on foot across France to Toulon and there was no patience for it to be found when they arrive and are shorn like sheep by shepherds who detest them. The indignity stayed. As did the scars.

But Javert isn’t an ordinary guard, the razor in his hand is sharp instead of made dull with carelessness and impatience. ”Hold still.”

Valjean stared at him, his breath heavy; instinct battling reason.

“I won’t let you hide behind that thicket of a beard*. Hold. Still,” commanded Javert and got down to work. The suds of the lavender soap, were inferior to real shaving soap, but they had to suffice. He scraped and tugged, ignored the fast beat of a pulse under his fingertips when he removed the hair from Valjean’s vulnerable throat. It resembled an attack more than a shave and Javert came out the winner. There was no shaping, no rescuing the outline of the short and carefully styled beard Madeleine had favored.

Javert tilted his head, irritated, his attention caught by the contours of the other man’s mouth. The upper lip had until now been partly concealed and dominated by the beard, a successful distraction. Currently only a few suds tried to take over that job. Javert used the washcloth to nib that in the bud.

If he had seen Valjean’s lips uncovered in Toulon and later in Montreuil-sur-Mer he would have never had any doubts at all about his identity.

The new look was giving Javert pause and he moves Valjean’s chin this way and that. “Huh. Why...”

“Because it is easier and faster to lose a beard and then lose yourself in a crowd than growing one,” Valjean admitted guessing correctly about Javert’s thought process. The lines on his face were screaming how tired he was, there wasn’t much fight left in him, not even against probing questions.

“Monsieur l’Inspecteur, the doctor has arrived.”

“Don’t think we will not return to this conversation later. I don’t want to waste the good Doctor’s precious time,” he hissed at Valjean and then he stood up and straightened his shirt where it had bunched up.

“Enter,” he called out. “Good day  Monsieur le Docteur. ”

The doctor turned out to be an older man with grey hair, an enormous mustache, and a no-nonsense attitude. “A pleasure, I’m sure. The commissaire informed me about what happened. It’s a shame. Let me take a look at the prisoner.”

“Thank you for taking the time to treat him. Over there,” Javert pointed.

“I have your permission to touch him?”

“You wouldn’t be able to do your job otherwise, would you?”

That earned him a strange stare and a shrug. “Then let me proceed. Normally I only treat convicts when they are tied down. And lying on a table so I have easy access. Better for my health and knees, for sure,” the man sourly commented and bent down to press his fingertips against Valjean’s throat, his eyes on the pocket watch he unearthed from the vest pocket.

Javert pressed his lips together in a firm line and suppressed his impulse to move, to do what, he didn’t want to contemplate. His grey eyes shackled Valjean’s brown to his.

One of the things he despised most about criminals was that they had no impulse control and he would be damned before he fell into that trap himself. Javert leaned against the nearest post of the bed, his arms akimbo and his attention on the doctor’s hands and his words. The man seemed competent and calm while he worked on his assessment.

“As I thought.” murmured the doctor, removed the forearm vambraces, opened and rolled up his fitted sleeves, crouched down and began examining Valjean more closely without further ado. Sometimes humming, sometimes writing down a short comment in his small leather-bound notebook.

Valjean was docile and let him touch and manipulate his body this way and that, his disquiet only visible with the way he flinched and tried to keep as much distance as possible, which wasn’t a lot. The only time he protested and forced his gaze out of Javert’s stranglehold was when the doctor’s hands touched him on his upper tight to rearrange his limbs. A soft, near-silent conversation between them ensued after which the doctor shrugged and focused his attention on other body parts.

When he was finished with his business, he stood up and availed himself to the washbasin**. “You do have the air of someone who loves brevity, I’ll try to keep my conclusions short.” The doctor finished washing his hands and was toweling them dry while moving to stand near Javert who responded with a slight bow.

“It’s not as bad as it might look. He has been beaten up badly and no mistake, but he has his faculties intact, apart from his fingers nothing is broken and those will heal cleanly in time if the wounds aren’t aggravated.”

Javert scrutinized the doctor with a gimlet stare. The man carefully folded the towel and placed it neatly aside, his face expressionless.

“A few of his ribs are cracked, stomping down on fragile bone will do that, but the real problem may arise from the wrap marks of the whip. You have seen them? Of course you have seen them, they aren’t easy to overlook. The organs underneath, kidneys and spleen appear to be swollen, you might want to pay attention to his emissions. If there is blood- “ He shrugged his shoulders. “I might have to bleed him to extract the foul humors and restore the balance and only the Lord will know if it is enough. But that is the worst-case scenario, do not be unduly concerned.”

Javert nodded his understanding.

“I’ve been told you are a former  garde-chiourme , you should have some basic training when it comes to wounds? You know what to look for?”

“Of course.”

“Keep him off his feet and apply the salves to the sores, I will write down detailed instructions. It would be better to clean him up fully before applying bandages, I have dealt with the worst wounds and will change the bandages in a few days. It looks like he walked part of the way to Toulon barefoot. Keep the blisters dry, fresh air helps. The most immediate problem is that he is dehydrated and nearly starved to death. Small meals spaced over the course of the day, lots of liquids. Light exercise. And I would advise postponing any sexual activities until his ribs are better and the welts on his back are at least halfway healed.” The man began to pull tubes and jars out of the bag he had left at the door while he was speaking. Discarded some with an impatient grunt, and put three on the surface of the desk.

Javert blinked. “Excuse me?”

“You collared him under Guard’s Law, I assumed you would put him to full use,” he said and sat down to retrieve sheets of paper from the desk drawer.

“That is none of your business.”

“If you say so,” the doctor replied placidly and pulled another, larger jar of something or another out of his bag and placed it at the end of the neat row of medical flotsam. Everybody remained quiet and lost in their own thoughts while d’Ivry’s pen scrapped across the paper. “I will visit the day after tomorrow to check on his progress.”

“How long until he can travel? I have to return to Paris,” Javert demanded to know.

“If you want him in good health and not risk a relapse? Five, maybe seven days if the wounds scab without issue and no complications arise. I will be able to give a more informed opinion when I’ve seen how he progresses.”

One full week? Dear Lord. Javert threw an accusing glare at his prisoner before thanking the doctor for his service.

D’Ivry accepted with a bow and snapped his bag shut, rightened his clothing. “A good night to you.”

“And to you.”

Javert waited until the door was securely closed behind the other dom before he resumed his former position beside Valjean and his scrubbing.

“You cause nothing but problems. And that Doctor, what does he take me for?”

Valjean lowered his head.

Something was niggling at his mind and when he bent and stretched to rub the sudsy cloth over one long muscular thigh the picture suddenly became clear. His hand stilled and he turned and glared at the convict.

“Did you ask the good doctor to keep silent, to lie to me by omission? The handlers at Arras? The guards, did they violate you?” The medic hadn’t been interested enough to dig, unlike the inspector. “Answer my question!” he demanded

“No.”

As always, Javert couldn’t tell if it was a lie that came out of Valjean’s mouth, no matter how much he tried to pick every nuance of word and accompanying facial expression apart. Minutes went by and finally only head, face and back weren’t scrupulously clean. Whenever he turned to the bucket Javert pointedly scowled at the other man.

“I wasn’t to their tastes,” Valjean finally mumbled.

Javert sneered and wrung out the cloth, dipped it back into the water and rubbed the soap bar aggressively across until he had a nice lather. “Forcing yourself on another is about power, not attraction. Can you raise yourself on one elbow and keep that position?”

“You would have to either change to the other side of my body or help me turn half around. My left arm won’t hold me up for long enough,” the answer was given without inflection at all.

“I’ll finish this and then we’ll revisit the issue.”

Javert held the other man’s gaze impassively until the other relented.

“Javert, can’t say that I was never... “ he sighed and turned his face away.

Javert narrowed his eyes, and stared at the hint of teeth that bit down on the convict’s lower lip.

“You will address me with the respect I’m due!”

“Yes, Monsieur l’Inspecteur, my appologies.”

“Guards are ordered to step in when things get out of hand between convicts. Not out of compassion-”

A tired sigh escaped from the prone figure. “You regard us like beasts, devoid of any delicate feeling and ability to reason,” he said without inflection, a statement more than an accusation.

“Hold still and don’t interrupt me. Convicts are beasts in need of taming. Beasts of burden that need to be maintained to fulfill their purpose.”

Valjean tensed up, the muscles in his jaw jumped and cramped.

“Infections inside a rectum can lead to fever and death faster than nearly any other injury. This hardly can be news to you. I won’t have you fall more ill because of false shame. Don’t make me examine you myself.” Javert kept his voice bland and neutral and attacked a clump of filth at the side of Valjean’s head. Everything was clumped together into a veritable fleece of dirt and hair. He lightened his touch for an extended cut that began at the other man’s temple and ended behind the left ear.

Javert poked at the edges of the wound. This might require stitches to heal cleanly. It wouldn’t be the last time his stitching skills would be put to such use. His unwilling patient didn’t react at first.

“So, this is maintenance. Very well. To answer your question, monsieur, I only have been violated like that when I was thrown into hell the first time. I did everything so it wouldn’t happen again, no thanks to the guards, by the way. Jean le Cric’s reputation grew fast and nobody dared for fear of what I might do in retaliation. Do you need further elaboration or is this enough?”

Valjean’s voice grew in volume, the diction firmed and the vowels, slurred before, grew crisper and well-formed until the cadence resembled the more cultured tones of Madeleine. The combative attitude, in contrast, was not something dear patient saintly Madeleine would have allowed himself to display.

Javert smiled without warmth, threw the cloth into the bucket hard enough that dirty water splashed out and took hold of Valjean’s jaw again, forced it around. Again. He bent down until his own prominent nose was nearly touching the convict’s. “There you are. This passive, docile prisoner wasn’t you at all.”

Valjean hissed, trying to wretch his chin out of his tormentor’s grip so he could look away but it was useless. “And you had to poke at a wound this shameful to accomplish that? And here I thought you wanted my unquestioning compliance, isn’t that what you insist I should do, follow orders unquestioningly, be a good little dog?”

“What did you expect? Wasn’t it you who bemoaned that I don’t temper my justice with mercy?” Javert mocked in turn, a fierce smile gracing his lips. “And for your words, you have invested so much time and effort into portraying pious, shy and bashful Madeleine. It still clings to you like a stage actress’ cheap face paint. I can’t trust those answers.”

“But you trust my rage?” Valjean sighed. “You won’t believe me when I tell you that the creature you remember as prisoner 24601 has no more substance than Madeleine.”

“Then who are you?” demanded Javert, his grey eyes hard as stone.

There was no answer.

“I can tell you this much: you are mine,” Javert finally growled, nailing down the truth he could grasp..

Valjean stared back at him. “Nobody can own another human being, no matter what the law says. God’s commands proclaim it is wrong.”

“God’s laws may reign supreme in the afterlife but here and now the law is the power that counts,***” Javert drawls and pointedly lets his fingertips caress the strip of black leather Valjean wears. “And I have to remind you, with your permission no less. I own you.”

“So you say.”

“So I know. Now, do you want to be clean or not?”

“Of course. My strength is returning, I can-”

Javert sneered and gesticulated. “Reach your own back without assistance? I doubt it unless it is a skill unique to you. Truly Valjean, don’t play the fool. And you would get the bandages on your hands wet. I asked if you want me to resume my task, not if you want to do it yourself.”

“I don’t want to inconvenience you.”

“Not inconvenience me, he says, hah! Now that would be the first time! Let me worry about that.” Javert rubbed an extra layer of soap into the washcloth, contemplating Valjean. 

“You didn’t seem to mind my touch too much?” Javert wasn’t too sure why he asked, it didn’t matter, did it? “Surely you fear that I would take advantage?”

A deep sigh escaped Valjean and he raised a hand to rub at his face but desisted with a wince. “Monsieur, you said it yourself, you have the right-”

Javert’s growl was deep and instead of recoiling in fear it made Valjean smile faintly.

“Inspector, I think I know you well enough to say that while you are a hard man, you aren’t a rapist. Bagnards play with high personal stakes when it comes to knowing which guards to avoid, which ones are easily riled or sadistic. If you were thus inclined I would have heard about it a day after you had given into your impulses. Consider this: I wouldn’t have allowed you into my town when Paris sent you as my new inspector of police, rest assured. You might not think so but I could have gotten rid of you if I wanted.”

“More fool you for not doing it,” Javert riposted harshly and intensified his glare.

Valjean gave a gallic shrug and lowered his eyes again.

There was nothing further to be said about it. Both men kept their own council.

After being fed another cup of water Valjean had drifted off to exhausted sleep. Javert finished his scrubbing without the convict reacting with more than some faint sounds of protest. Javert dragged him off the damp spot he had been lying on and onto the carpet that decorated the side of the bed. He could apply the salves later, it was better for the welts and sores to dry for a bit beforehand and restful sleep was the best healer.

After a few seconds of thoughtful pondering, a sheet was wrapped around the convict to protect the cleaned wounds and the carpet both, then Javert retrieved the quilt from the bed and added it for warmth around the faintly shivering man. It wouldn’t do for the nuisance to catch a cold.

He should use the time he had to himself, shouldn’t he? Investigate the room, unpack and read the bloody note d’Ivry left.

Javert tidied the room until he was satisfied with its neatness and then sat down at the desk. His attention drifted inevitably to the figure on the floor. Valjean had curled up on his side, only shifting minutely in his cocoon of fabric but otherwise, he seemed to be sleeping peacefully.

He was only hailed once to the door by a hesitant knock, Humbert delivering a tray with covered dishes, fresh bread, a carafe with water and a fine drinking glass instead of a more practical cup. Steam was softly curling up from under the lids where they had shifted in transit and the fragrance of something delicious was making Javert’s mouth water and his stomach growl. Javert sat down the tray carefully on the desk not to jostle the delicacies and lifted the lids. One terrine contained a hearty stew, the other a thin bullion.

Extravagant cuisine has never been something he concerned himself with, bread, cheese and whatever his portress had cooked had been always good enough for him but that didn’t mean that he wouldn’t enjoy this fine treat. This was a meal that wouldn’t look out of place on the table of the commissaire, which was probably where it originated

Sheets rustled. The smell of food had penetrated Valjean’s rest. The man slowly sat up, the sheet wrapped around his upper body and the quilt pooling around him. Javert raised an eyebrow and snorted derisively. Valjean had averted his face and seemed to be deliberately not looking in direction of the fragrancies but his Adam’s apple was jumping up and down nervously.

“Don’t be a fool, as if I would starve you! I’m not an Ogre.” Javert snatched up the full tray again, left the covering of the dishes on the desk and strolled over to the convict and placed the tray on the floor, sitting down in tailor fashion.

Vakjeans' eyes darted from the dishes to Javert and back, his bandaged hands clumsily pressing the sheet to his chest.

Javert sampled the stew. It was made with venison that was so tender and well seasoned that he had to restrain himself not to gobble up more like an ingrate. Instead he took the other spoon, filled it with thin broth and waved it under Valjean’s nose.

Valjean leaned forward and ate.

Javert alternated between eating his own meal and feeding the convict. There was something exhilarating about watching that insolent mouth wrap around the spoon and appreciate what Javert had offered. When he held it out for longer than it took Valjean to simply empty it the man would inevitably clean it with delicate licks that made Javert unable to look away. He didn’t think that Valjean was conscious about the spectacle he provided, he had a faraway look of contentment in his eyes.

He always waited patiently and without protest for the next spoon, no matter how slowly the Dominant chewed on his delicious bite of venison when it was his turn. Javert couldn’t resist drawing it out a bit to test Valjean’s resolve.

It never wavered, he never showed signs of impatience.

There hadn’t been a second glass, whoever had prepared the meals of the opinion that the broth was enough liquid to sate thirst. But Javert, enjoying himself and conscious of the recommendations of the doctor, offered a few sips of his water anyway, just to add a little variation. Finally both pots were empty.

“How is your stomach? I don’t fancy having you throw up when I finally managed to get you clean.” Javert asked, stretching out one leg casually and sipping the last of his water and cleaning the bottom of the terrine with a piece of bread.

Valjean startled. “Thank you for your consideration, monsieur. And the food. I don’t feel faint, there is no need to worry.”

“Hm. Maybe we’ll try some bread tomorrow,” contemplated Javert and chewed on the one he held in his fingers before he gathered the remains of their meal. “For now I’ll fetch my manacles. To remove temptation, if nothing else.”

A guffaw made him turn around. “Is there something the matter? I can’t find anything funny about chaining you to my bed.”

“Ah, no. My apologies. Just a random thought-”

“Yes? Do elaborate, I beg you.”

“I noticed the shape of the tray and,” he smiled faintly “a thought most queer crossed my mind about this being the strangest sort of first sharing of a plate there has to be.” Valjean’s expression was peculiar.

“Go to sleep.” Javert rolled his eyes in exasperation.

TBC

Historical ramblings:*according to my sources and the blog of prudencebaccard convicts were usually clean-shaven (to help with the lice?); the mountain men beards in the movie and the beards in the musical were poetic licenses and since I like it I kept it.**Modern doctors wash before and after treating a patient, in 1820something a lot only cleaned their hands after getting 'dirty', like in the garden. Many surgeons did autopsies in the morning and then treated patients in the afternoons, without disinfecting their hands because disinfection hadn’t been invented yet. That credit goes to Dr. Semmelweiss in 1861 and earned much scorn for his methods. d'Ivry is only a little bit less neglectful from a modern perspective since he comes directly from other patients and washed after them. Still... if I want it accurate I would have to make him use talcum powder.***Slavery was abolished in France (only within the mother country) 1794 but Napoleon Bonaparte reinstated it in 1802. The law was overthrown in 1848.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



With the massive wooden headrest of the bed supporting his back, Javert moodily stared through the dark to where he could barely see the silhouette of the man sleeping on the floor.



Sometimes he could discern a hitch in Valjean’s breath pattern or a soft mumble combined with wriggling, but overall the convict was doing his best to be uninteresting, blending with the surroundings like another piece of furniture. If this was restricted to the night and sleep Javert wouldn’t think anything was amiss but Valjean had been annoyingly cooperative and bland for the last days.



Even during and after a flogging Valjean had always emanated energy. No cussing, no insults like other prisoners spewed nothing that ordinary, instead his eyes had burned and glowed in mute aggression and hate. But the knowledge that the only thing that stood between the 

gard-chiourmes

 and retaliation were the chains holding him down, had been an unacknowledged truth for all people that witnessed the floggings. And, as Valjean’s various attempts to flee proved, to the unease of the guards, those chains weren’t a guaranteed security measure.



Jean le Cric had been all brutal vitality and rage barely contained by mortal flesh. No matter if he had rested, worked or brawled, he had drawn eyes, Javert had been no exception and he could readily remember the anger he had felt because no convict should warrant this amount of his personal attention.



If he hadn’t been such a sullen loner Valjean could have easily been a leader among the prisoners, and causing much more mayhem and unrest than he already did on his own. That also would have likely led to his execution, so maybe it wasn’t really surprising that he kept himself separate from his comrades. Not a leader, but not a follower either. For all his brawn and strength Valjean wasn’t stupid, not at all. If only that intelligence had been channeled into something else than useless escape attempts and breaking the law. What a waste.



Madeleine couldn’t have been more different in behavior and temperament both and that must have been by deliberate design, Javert refused to consider anything else. The mayor had exhibited inert energy, much more contained than le Cric but nevertheless unable to be hidden. Townpeople had habitually stopped whatever they had been working on to turn and watch him whenever the man had appeared to fulfill his functions, or simply strolled by. Combined with his wealth and good deeds it had been nearly inevitable that he rose to an important position in town, no matter how unwilling. And, in retrospect, Javert thought and sat up fully, his brows drawn together in concentration, which had also been a clue to his secret because it mirrored the convict’s tactics. The first time the Mairi had been offered Valjean had declined, of course he had! But it had nevertheless drawn unwanted attention. Someone seemingly averse to taking such power when it was offered freely had to be suspect.



This bland version he had to contend with now was making Javert’s skin crawl with unease and it was beginning to let him lose sleep. Glimpses of the real Valjean could be drawn out with enough provocation, the little verbal spar the first day had proven but since then Valjean had grown more withdrawn every day.



Was his downtrodden mien a ruse, was he trying to make Javert lower his barriers? Or was he genuine? Maybe he should conduct a few experiments.



Javert relaxed marginally and contemplated the conundrum that was Valjean some more. The convict was sleeping soundly no matter the hard surface or his injuries. By rights Valjean should be frantic with worry, tossing and turning in fear of what Javert might do to him. The impromptu rescue from torture notwithstanding, the man was more aware than anyone else about Javert’s ruthlessness when dealing with a criminal. It had been a constant point of contention between the Chief of Police and the Mayor on top of personal discrepancies of opinion. Even if Javert would never torture him - harsh labor and scorn were something Valjean knew the inspector to support as punishment.



Yes, Valjean’s behavior made even less sense than customary for the man. He had made no attempt to take the doctor hostage, Javert had paid close attention. It wasn’t a tactic he thought was likely to be utilized but it would be neglectful to gamble d’Ivry’s health on it.



Which led to another puzzle. D’Ivry was caustic, and arrogant but had some of the lightest hands Javert had ever seen in a physician. They never strayed where they weren’t needed and although d’Ivry made no indication that he worried for the prisoner out of compassion instead of pure duty, he was very thorough. When he checked, and he checked every time he visited, the levels of salves in the jars he had left he grumbled and sent some pointed stares at the inspector.



Valjean should have relaxed his defenses in d’Ivry’s presence by now, but he hadn’t. Watchful, polite and tense yes, trusting? No.



Since the convict, due to his damaged hands, was unable to apply the medications it fell to Javert, who had never neglected his duties in all of his years and wouldn’t start now, no matter what that nosy physician assumed. And his meticulous tending was showing some discernable differences in Valjean’s condition. As well it should be considering the amount of time Javert spent rubbing something or other into Valjean’s skin.



With a few exceptions like the doctor’s visits or Humbert delivering food, nobody had disturbed their solitude. Javert hadn’t exchanged the sheet as a covering for Valjean with something more proper during daytime. It seemed pointless, his own clothes wouldn’t fit and he needed access to skin quite often.



And the contradictive man allowed it from his enemy with more patience and contentment than with the physician. It was maddening.



Throughout the day Javert kept close attention to Valjean whenever he looked up from the files he was studying. The first reaction that wasn’t polite distance was when Humbert came in to tell them that the Commissaire asked if Javert had time to dine with him today.



The 

adjudant sous-officier 

stood at attention and was directing all his attention to Javert, he didn’t see the resigned terror blooming on Valjean’s face. Being paraded as a novelty in front of officers of the jail, wasn’t something to look forward to.



Since Renault knew that Javert’s official task had been resolved in a most unfavorable manner, that left only the arduous task of documentation to fill his time, there wasn’t any other option but to accept. Paperwork was not something that could be deemed more important than accepting an invitation by the highest-ranking officer of the Bagne. It was an honor to be shown such distinction among peers.



“

Monsieur le Commissaire

 is aware that circumstances aren’t in favor of meeting at the officer mess hall. To avoid discomfiting your submissive the meal will be served in this room. Everything will be taken care of, you need not trouble yourself with the details.” The adjudant added a slight bow.



“Please tell the Commissaire that we look forward to his company. How many people are we expected to entertain?”



“None other than the Commissaire. I was instructed to tell you that he thought it would be better to keep it an intimate event.”



Valjean sighed nearly inaudible, the relaxation obvious and Javert silently agreed.



The damn con artist was practically content when, hours later, two attendants carried in a small table with spindly legs and only two chairs.



“Monsieur Renault will want to speak with you about something without any witness. I can spend the evening in the antechamber.” Valjean offered.



“Where I can’t keep an eye on you? I don’t think so!” Javert intently scrutinized his uniform boots for blemishes and unearthed polish and brush to give them a once over.



Valjean shugged and made himself comfortable on the floor, loosely wrapped in the quilt.



The adjutants returned carrying linen, porcelain and silverware which they arranged carefully before disappearing again, this time closing the door fully.



“Hm.” The convict tilted his head and then got up to inspect the table. “No centerpiece, candle holders; Very elegant table cloth and beautifully crafted place plates, they have included napkins.” He moved one of the tablespoons a little bit to the right. “No more than two courses or three depending on what sort of meal is planned. The occasion is expected to be elegant but not overly formal.”



Javert finished the boot and let it clatter to the floor.



“Your uniform should suffice, monsieur, you might want to use a more elaborate knot for your cravat and you should lose the leather stock, it might be taken as an insult, but he won’t expect you to have evening wear, not without more forewarning.”



“I find it highly ironic to receive etiquette advice from someone who is standing in front of me bare ass naked,” noted Javert and observed that Valjean’s blush made his ears glow through his hair.



“Why do you think I need instructions in fine table manners? And from you? That is laughable.” He stressed the 

tu

.



Valjean wrapped one arm around his middle and sighed. “Because only a few weeks ago you refused an invitation to sup with the widower d’Amboise and personally discuss the sheep thieves that plagued one of his farms, you insisted that he should come to the station house instead. You told me that a police spy with the manners of the same has no place at a table that has more than two knives beside the plate. And since you don’t lie, ever-”



“You give me too much credit,” interrupted Javert a little drily. “I question your sudden impulse to be helpful but never mind. Where did you learn the manners of a gentleman? Your precious books?”



“No, your predecessor taught me.” Valjean retreated to the side of the bed near the window with the afternoon light playing strangely on his whipped hide. He watched the outside.



“Elaborate.”



“I asked him for instructions, it’s that simple. You might have heard that I rescued his children on the day I arrived at Montreuil-sur-Mer from a house fire? He thought he owed me a favor. Dubuisson was known as a gourmand, he always loved to accept invitations and that necessitated excellent manners if he wanted a second one to be offered.”



“That might explain why everyone at first thought I would be delighted to waste my time visiting every household to ‘inspect security’ in the Upper Town.” Javert grimaced and finished shining the second boot before putting both on.



“Fernand Dubuisson was also one of the biggest gossips and due to his position, he was at the pulse of nearly every noteworthy incident. It made him very popular,” added Valjean with a shrug, still not looking at the Dominant and it annoyed Javert.



Before he could correct the convict the door was opened hastily again, without any warning. The loud noise made Valjean crouch down to take cover. The servant who entered was sprouting apologies - not for barging in though - and was dragging a small piece of furniture to the table, placing it beside one chair. An upholstered kneeling bench, just as elegant and in the same style as the chairs.



Valjean blanched and looked to Javert over the edge of the bed, a question in his panicked eyes.



“There are no injuries on your lower legs,” Javert mentioned casually, “Kneeling should not be the problem, but will you behave, or will you embarrass us both in front of the Commissaire? And since you are, if I divine the seating correctly, expected to be part of the dining arrangement I must try to make you presentable.”



That untidy mess on Valjean’s head needed to be dealt with. Javert dragged the desk chair over and impatiently waved at the piece of furniture and his submissive in turn. “Your hair needs cutting. I will have to equalize the strands, it will be a close cut, but at least you will not look like mice have gnawed on your hair. Why are you still down there?”



Valjean heaved himself up and stood with more hesitance than grace.



“Oh, do hurry, time is running short and I will not have you disgrace both of us by looking like a vagrant. It’s fortunate that I shaved you this morning. Hm, there should be a used sheet in the laundry basket, stay where you are until I’ve spread it under the chair. We don’t have time for an extensive clean-up.”



And with ‘we’ he meant himself because Valjean, even though he was healing nicely, still moved with the speed of a turtle and had difficulties bending over without opening any wounds if he did so too fast. If Javert hadn’t been there as an impromptu and startled handhold the convict would have taken a dive nose-first to the hard floor this morning. He had been trying to adjust the bandages around his feet and instead of sitting down - or asking Javert - he had bent over.



Javert had screamed at him for nearly ten minutes. The last thing he needed was Valjean with a head injury. It didn’t seem to have much impact apart from Valjean cringing but at least Javert had felt better.



Four days of forced cohabitation had further reduced Valjean’s tendency to tense whenever Javert was in hitting distance. His eyes still kept involuntarily darting to the former guard’s hands, making sure that he wasn’t carrying his cane, instead of bandages and washcloths but even that nervous tick had decreased significantly.



With a comb and scissors poised for action Javet scrutinized the bent head. Maybe the blinding white locks had made the prison guards reluctant to touch them more than necessary - he could imagine that it had been a startling sight, but the cut wasn’t level to the scalp as it should be. Stars, this violation of the rules hadn’t registered with Javert until now. However it came to be, it would now work in Javert’s favor.



“They halved the length in most places, what an untidy job,” criticized Javert.



Valjean’s shoulders twitched. “They said they wanted me to stay recognizable. To enjoy the fruits of my fame.”



Javert let his fingers card repeatedly through the hair and finally rubbed a strand between forefinger and thumb to check the dexterity while he planned where to cut first. It was soft and thick enough to cover most of the scars on the scalp. He tugged and watched the strand imprudently spring back into a curl.



Valjean squawked and Javert gave him a barely-there slap on the back of his head in admonishment.



“If you don’t want to look more like a ruffian you should keep still.”



And then, just to drive home that he could, he repeatedly used his fingers to comb through Valjean’s hair before wetting his comb and trying to force some semblance of order on the chaos. Which wasn’t easy, the strands were as unruly and slippery as their owner.



He kept some attention on the con but apart from some shudders he was breathing deeply and didn’t seem to mind too much when Javert tilted his head this way and that. Javert rarely had to deal with his own hair, an upside of the length he kept it at. No matter what the current fashion demanded, a queue was much more practical - it shouldn’t be this difficult to pair hair down to an even length, should it?



“There now,” said Javert finally and contentedly scrutinizing his handiwork, brushed everything back from the forehead until the coiffure resembled a fine white cap covering Valjean’s head. Some strands had been nearly shorn to the skin and he of course hadn’t been able to do anything about it, but there was enough hair left to cover most of the irregularity. “Not too bad, it’s fairly short but that can’t be helped. Aren’t you going to thank me?”



Valjean released a deep breath before he answered in the affirmative and removed himself from the chair and Javert’s reach. “I am grateful, but Monsieur, may I please borrow one of your shirts for dinner? Trousers?”



“Whatever for? They won’t fit your frame and would span over your shoulders and irritate the whip marks. Which would end with more pain for you and a soiled shirt for me.” He scooped up sheet and hair both and then raised an eyebrow at the fretting submissive, taking note of how stood with his arms shielding his chest.



“You have been naked in this room for the last few days, it’s too late to pretend to be body shy.”



“It’s not the same,” Valjean swallowed heavily. “with a stranger.”



“You aren’t that special, the Commissaire has seen you bare already and must have seen thousands of naked men during his time in the naval service and the Bagne,” Javert commented and then paused. The thought of Renault casually perusing a naked Valjean, of anyone else doing it, filled him with strange disquiet on second thought.



“But on the other hand a sight like this,” he gestured to the brand “will spoil a man’s appetite. I’ve seen a dressing gown hanging in the wardrobe, that might suffice.” He balled up the mess in his hands for later disposal and shoved it into a drawer where it would be out of sight.



And there it was, his memory hadn’t deserted him. The banyan style dressing gown had been part of the accouterments. Javert pulled out a black garment made of cambric and handed it to Valjean who slipped into it and fastened the belt with fingers made clumsy by haste and bandages. On a man of Javert’s height, the garment would have covered him halfway down to his knees, on Valjean the hem touched them barely.



Javert eyed him critically and then corrected the lay of the fabric and tucked it a little bit more down to showcase his collar. It earned him a thoughtful look.



“Should I kneel down on that now?” Valjean gestured. “I don’t know how to do it gracefully. Never learned, and it might lead to embarrassment. Which you said you want to avoid, ” he drily qualified after Javert glowered at him.



“Not standing up when someone of importance visits? I don’t think so.” Javert strode over to the bench and scrutinized it. Such an innocent-looking thing had the potential to make them look like fools. “If I remember correctly the prison offers basic instructions on etiquette, and the Pleasure Houses rotate instructors in and out of the Bagne. In nineteen years you didn’t manage to learn the social foundation of your orientation?” Of course, it was Valjean’s fault.



And of course he had an excuse.



“It is offered, but not compulsory. A convict can sacrifice his only free day, Sunday, to attend lessons. But the reading and writing lessons by the Ignorants are at the same time as House lessons.”



A huff escaped Javert. “Nineteen. Years.”



Valjean averted his eyes, a faint blush blooming on his cheeks. “I preferred to learn to read. Friar Imaneus lent me some of his own books when he saw how much I enjoyed them. The material was normally restricted to the holy script for the lessons. He had additional material on so many things. My favorite was Robinson Crusoe*.”



“I can’t decide what has to lead to worse ideas, the bible and your almsgiving or a book about social mores. Even I’ve heard about that book. But don’t deflect. Nineteen years? I attended lessons and I am hardly a social creature.” Javert shook his head in exasperation.



An indistinct mumble could be heard.



“What did you say? Are you trying to exploit my reluctance to punish you - there isn’t enough unblemished skin on your back to avoid opening the old wounds - because I want to be able to leave on time? Don’t tempt me.”



Valjean flinched faintly and obediently fixed his gaze somewhere in direction of his Dominant’s shoulder instead of meeting his eyes. “I am sorry, Monsieur. I don’t want to repeat it”.



The polite salutation didn’t come as fast as the policeman would have like it to. “Then you shouldn’t have said it. Out with it.”



“Before I decided to try learning instead of plotting new ways to escape, which should please you, I was too angry to see any advantage in using my free time for instructions. And in my first years I would probably have flung myself from a parapet instead of learning how to better suck a cock. Propably a guard’s cock or that of a one of the 

forcat

 leaders.”



Javert recoiled. From the picture, the words painted and the choice of vocabulary. Hearing such filthy expressions from Valjean’s lips was disconcerting. “I doubt instructions were that specific,” he said, for want of another utterance.



“There was a time I doubted that I would be free, ever. That reduced the choice of partner for anything those lessons taught, you must agree. And I had no kind thoughts for my fellow cons, and they for me, amorous feelings even less. And, again not an absurd conclusion, the bagne is no place for sexual technique or etiquette. Where would I need to know when to use sub seating?”



Javert pointed at the padded bench. “And nevertheless here we are.”



A faint smile was curling the convict’s mouth. “Against all odds.”



If on nothing else Javert had to congratulate the other men for his skill at reigning in his emotions fast. “And most likely out of time as well. The Commissaire should arrive any moment. Where did I leave my jacket?”



“You have hung it on the small side of the wardrobe.”



It had been in need of a brush and hanging out to remove the wrinkles. It was fortunate that he had his Sunday best at hand anyways, he had packed it on a whim and the faint chance that he would be asked to dine with Renault and his officers. A more exclusive setting hadn’t touched his thoughts - this journey had turned out to be full of surprises.



While shrugging into the jacket he fired one more needling stinger at the convict. “Never getting out? You might have desisted with the escape attempts, that would have helped.”



“You have a talent for touching on the most painful things.” Valjean gritted his teeth before calming down again. “If you have the time and interest, look up the particulars of my first escape attempt,” he added in the blandest voice possible.



Again the door saved him a scolding and this time it was Humbert announcing the arrival of the 

Chef des Services des chiourmes

, holding the door open for Renault and then taking position beside the doorframe.



Valjean moved to the left and slightly behind his Dominant to greet their visitor, Javert noted with approval.



Renault acknowledged the inspector with a nod before taking off his gloves and cover and handing them to his

 adjudant sous-officier

.



“I see matters have improved, you look much better.” The man was staring at Valjean, one eyebrow rising pointedly.



The bow Valjean delivered was gracious, deep and accompanied by perfect posture. It must have hurt immensely but it didn’t show. “It is a pleasure meeting you, thank you for taking such an interest.”



“And you do have impeccable manners, I see,” remarked Renault thoughtfully. “Let us sit down, my cook is very good and it would be a shame to let his efforts go to waste.”



As the master of the house in the company of a police agent and a convict, it was Renault’s right to sit down first but they were in the peculiar situation that Valjean technically held the position of the highest-ranked submissive who wasn’t Renault. Which explained the faintly amused way the Commissaire gestured to the table.



“After you.”



There was nothing to it, Javert helped him kneel and both sighed in relief when the manöver was executed halfway smoothly. Valjean arranged the dressing gown around himself. His Dom was the last to take his seat.



Servants discreetly served them and then vacated the room until they were called again with a small bell by Renault. The portion on Javert’s plate was larger than the one on Renault’s, and the inspector could take the hint. He shared with Valjean, and fed him tidbits of meat and pieces of bread soaked with delicious thick soup. It went smoothly, they had done it often enough by now out of necessity because of Valjean’s damaged hands, just not with an audience.



The conversation was lively between the two officers, and Renault was savvy enough to mostly keep to topics Javert would be knowledgeable enough about and would feel free to discuss. The feeling that he was discreetly interrogated couldn’t be denied but for the most part, Javert didn’t need to prevaricate. Security issues inherent in prisons were something both men felt strongly about.



At one point, after heartily agreeing with Renault that human supervision would always trump mechanical deterrents, he unbent enough to sarcastically offer Valjean up as someone who could test the new security measures the administration had added to the outer walls.



“They might be enough deterrent for the ordinary convict but for someone with unusual determination and no sense of self-preservation? It won’t be enough. What I learned is that it is not smart to underestimate the correlation between a tree pruner’s ability to climb any tree, and the translation of that skill to high walls. He once scaled the slippery quay rampart and everyone was certain it would end with his crushed corpse at the bottom. We caught him on the other side a day later, so late mostly because nobody bothered to immediately run after him; we thought he’d kill himself with his foolishness for sure.”



It earned him an amused toast with the wineglass from Renault and an incredulous stare from the escape specialist in question. Javert smiled down at him with too many teeth showing, and offered Vlajean a small piece of asparagus with his fingers.



It backfired when the soft lips took it so prettily and he could feel a hint of tongue removing traces of the gravy from his fingers. Javert didn’t think but pressed his fingertips to chase the tongue to those lips shining from the fat in the sauce and pink with the warmth of the room. He was always chasing Valjean, wasn’t he?



And Valjean allowed it and nipped on the offered appendages, a faraway look in his eyes. Javert snatched back his hand and it broke the hold this madness had over both of them. It also caused a revelation to crash over Javert with the force of a blow.



Something that had dodged his steps and sidled up to him from the dark corners of his mind became crystal clear. So this was it? When his hands had lingered for a little bit too long, his attention caught by a pleasing curve of the spine, a quirk of lips, the soft amusement in brown eyes?



Javert had never considered himself as an overtly sexual creature. He had the urges of a healthy Dominant, no doubt, but the thought of slacking his lust with a stranger had never appealed to him. He had indulged and accepted the overtures of colleagues when he first moved to Paris before he was sent to Montreuil-Sur-Mer, but it had been more hassle than it was worth and his own hands and some fantasies had been nearly as good with less discomfort. Thinking back on those fantasies Javert called himself a fool. They had more than once starred a certain convict.



By the way Valjean was staring at him with shock written all over his face, in turns turning pasty white and a deep red, he wasn’t alone with such conclusions, if not the exact details.



And thankfully they hadn’t been fully on display with their clumsy interactions, the tabletop and the linen tablecloth prevented Renault a ringside seat to the submissive participant of this little drama. Their visitor might wonder though about the sudden long stretch of silence. What had they been discussing, by the way? Javert wrinkled his brow and searched his memory. Ah, security measures.



“Maybe I will take you up on that offer in a few months. Employing unusual talents is all the rage at the moment. Have you heard of Vidoqc’s experiments? He is of the opinion that it can be beneficial to, how did he put it, use a thief to catch a thief?” Renault helped breach the silence that had sprung up.



Javert had opinions about that foolishness -yes he did!- and they were strong enough to serve as the perfect means to concentrate on something else. Nevertheless, he kept one hand on Valjean, resting on his right shoulder.



“Vidoqc has read too much Rosseau! I agree that using the light a reformed,” he sneered to illustrate his opinion of that foolishness, ”man can shed on the twists and turns of the criminal mind to catch others isn’t a bad idea. But to make them agents of the Law? That is going too far.”



Renault laughed and they discussed it while devouring the last of the excellent meal. Javert’s hand remained where it was resting, and he felt fingers curling around his leather-covered ankle nearest to the kneeling Valjean. As time went by and the second and hopefully the last course was eaten but then dessert was served Javert noted with some concern that Valjean’s weight against him changed from barely there to solid. He had taken a few bites of fish but then refused more.



It was a relief when the dinner came to a close.



Renault dismissed the servants for the last time. Only a small basket filled with oranges remained on the table and their drinks. Javert had only drunk half a glass of wine for appearance’s sake, and demurred when asked if he wanted more. He preferred a clear head and water.



Renault casually dragged his chair a little bit to the side until he was facing both Valjean and Javert.



Javert gathered his wits, he would need them.



The older man was lazily sipping at his wine, his eyes half-mast. “Let me tell you a story,” he hummed, his eyes traveling over first Javert and then Valjean, lingering at the white-haired, bent head.



Javert wrinkled his nose and took a mouthful of water and swallowed aggressively. What else could he do but patiently listen when Renault decided it was story time? He hoped there was a point to it and soon.



“Before I was promoted to Admiral I served in the Royal Atlantic fleet as a Captain. I’ll spare you the details of my many heroic battles and interesting travels, they are unimportant.” He waved one hand lazily. “But there was a battle at predawn and the weather was bloody horrible, as much water in the air as under the hull. With darkness clouding everything and the storm blinding us - we were lucky that if it wasn’t our sisterships’ cannonballs screaming in our ears. Maybe they were? Who can say. The weather worsened further, we drifted far from our convoy, one mast broke and when we were finally able to search for help the only other ship we found near us was the Levant. And she was a British Ship. Worse off than we were but that didn’t faze her Captain, or cool his need to try and throw cannonballs at us. We fought, and I won. Nominally.”



Renault gestured to the bottle, and Javert obediently refilled the man’s glass with more wine.



“You are wondering why I’m regaling you with old battle tales. Don’t worry, I won’t draw it out. I said we won, barely, 

oui

?” He sighed deeply. “What we did was wrack our poor Adelene during the encounter, lose nearly all of the sailors to death and injury who hadn’t been killed the day before until we finally managed to solidly hit the enemy under the waterline with sheer dumb luck. She was helpless in the water, sinking fast but it looked like my ship would follow the Levant to the bottom of the ocean because of damage taken. And the storm was gaining strength again, to laugh at us presumptive mortals, no doubt. The highest-ranking officer who was still alive on the Levante offered to surrender. We agreed to pull all survivors we could fish out of the water on my ship because she was in better shape, combine our crews for the sake of survival, keep the ship seaworthy with spit, and prayers, and ride out the storm together.”



Javert let his chin sink down and the hand that still rested on Valjean’s shoulder cramped as if clutching around manacles. Collaborating with the enemy would mean treason, certainly not a promotion to Commandant.



Renault was openly laughing at him. “Such a face you make, my dear Inspector. It was my ship still under my command, my crew still outnumbered the British and the enemy officer surrendered fully. We survived against all odds and limped back to the Mediterranean, Toulon incidentally. It took us nearly two weeks and we were in sorry condition. We had to cooperate to a certain extent or everyone would have drowned or died of wounds and a lack of fresh water. Each of us prayed that it would be our own fleet finding the Adelene, of course. Since I’m sitting here, you can guess who got his wish fulfilled. But it left me with a conundrum. I had come to respect the British officer, you see. He was in a precarious position: not important enough to be exchanged for one of our own prisoners of war, not extraordinary enough in standing and rank to not be… severely questioned about enemy movements and tactics. Considering the length of time we were absent, giving up intel wouldn’t have bought him much lenience either because whatever he knew, it was outdated by the time the Adelene limped into the harbor. So I found an alternative. Can you guess?”



Such political manövers had never appealed to Javert. Still, the answer lay on the tip of his tongue but seemed to have turned to sawdust and now clogged his mouth.



“You offered to allow him to collar you with the caveat that you would be the dominant partner in all public affairs.” It was Valjean who answered with his head bent and one of his hands on his collar.



One slender hand rose to the golden collar, a mirror to Valjean’s gesture, and caressed it. “It makes my surprise about Inspector Javert’s actions rather ironic, doesn’t it? Because a variation of it was what I did many years ago, you are right. Being thrown together in an untenable situation and a common enemy forged a connection that is still alive to this day. It helped that we are compatible privately and professionally. My dear English officer has no problem at all leaving me in charge of everything that doesn’t concern him.” Renault smiled softly as if thinking of a joke only he could understand and wouldn’t share.



“Collaring an enemy combatant is hardly the same as collaring a convict,” Javert replied and the accusation hidden underneath couldn’t be denied.



“The difference isn’t that huge, nomenclature and scenery, mostly. The Admiralty was satisfied to get him out of their hair without losing face. You see, my family is influential, and insulting the choices of spouse of even a younger and less important son of the Comte de Vire would have created more waves than one unimportant Englishman was worth.”



Renault, or rather Theodore Arnaud Christophe Renault Silvaine, idly snatched one of the oranges and began to peel it slowly. “You can imagine that the symmetry has aroused my interest.”



“You could have avoided the need for saving face a few days ago. All you had to do was deal with those guards as you should!” Javert shoved the plate away impatiently and could feel how the fingers that clutched his boot at the ankle moved restlessly.



Renault’s gaze snapped to the inspector and grew flinty. “And you, inspector, aren’t aware of all valiant facts pertaining to the problem. This snafu has instilled in me belated sympathy for my own superiors years ago.” He pulled the orange apart and deftly separated the meat of a slice from the white skin that covered it.



“How so?” If the man could quiet some of the storm inside with sensible arguments Javert would manage to drag up more patience. “I’m not that important.”



And nobody else other than Javert would have been overly interested in Valjean’s death.



“But one of the guards is. Lestrange. He has been transferred to Toulon for disciplinary reasons, and to get him out of his father’s hair and the immediate memory of polite society. Lestrange, and everyone else for the matter, is waiting for the ire to calm down soon, and then he is expected to return to the bosom of his family and some cushy but unimportant post in Paris.”



“And that makes him untouchable?”



“No. I will see to it that the time he has left here will be exceedingly unpleasant for him. He will beg his sire for a transfer in no time. You might think I am a coward for not pressing the matter, and maybe I am, but I have more responsibilities than one prisoner.” Another slice was daintily eaten.



“And is this-” Javert encompassed the luxurious -at least to his eyes- room and the elegant dinning table. “a bid to secure my silence and cooperation?”



Instead of reacting to the implied insult Renault smiled and shook his head no. “I don’t need to, do I? You said it yourself, you aren’t that important so you have no leverage. And, as I mentioned, I feel some kinship due to the similarities of the collaring.” The smile faded. “And there is a debt to be paid on my part. The illegal torment of your submissive, convict or not, happened under my command. And it is a waste of time to get lost in might-have-beens. Do you really wish that it could have been resolved differently?”



Javert lowered his gaze to the kneeling man at his side. Did he regret collaring him? Valjean was looking back, white-faced and unreadable.



Valjean kneeling for him, Javert.



He loosened his grip on his sub’s shoulder and touched the collar with careful fingertips instead. The leather was warm from resting against bare skin.



“What am I to do now, with him?” He wasn’t aware that he had voiced the question aloud until he got an answer.



“Whatever you want and he can provide, isn’t that the point?”



Javert’s head snapped around. “I meant that I can’t conceive and haven’t found Rules of Conduct for this. I’m a police inspector, I do not have the time to play correctional officer. And how do you expect me to enforce discipline?” He exclaimed. “Despite the opinion that strict discipline and pain are the way to reform prisoners, nineteen years of hard labor and various floggings haven’t shown any success with this one. If nineteen years haven’t penetrated his thick skull and instilled respect for Law and Order, more of the same won’t either.” And wasn’t that a revelation?



Now not only Renaut but Valjean as well were looking at him with amusement. Javert felt himself flush, it couldn’t be borne.



“You have no sense of humor do, you? You labor under a misapprehension, I fear. Guard’s Law is sometimes invoked to prevent a waste of potential or to legalize an existing bond that developed between a guard and a prisoner. A guard has one chance to ask for this, why would they waste it on someone irredeemable, just for a challenge? A senior guard of good standing is expected to know the difference. If I hadn’t thought that you would do admirably I would not have stood witness to the collaring.”



Javert blinked.



“You are intelligent, figure it out.” Renault challenged and added an eye-roll as insult to injury. He cleaned his fingers with the shallow basin of lemon water and the linen napkin.



“I do hope that you aren’t telling me that I’m considered a worse punishment than Toulon.”



Choked, helpless laughter drifted up and Valjean shook under his hand in restrained mirth.



“And if you hadn’t been convinced that I would do well?” Javert couldn’t get over that part. What was he supposed to do admirably? Keep track of Valjean because he had done so in the past?



“Then we would be having a very different conversation; I failed him once, and I will not do so again.”



Privately Javert thought that Renault was too lenient with himself. He failed twice. “How do you figure you aren’t making a mistake?”



“Good God man, have you no eyes? Your persistent fascination with this man is legendary. Firstly, I have my people report back to me about their impressions of your dynamic, this can’t come as a surprise to you. If I hadn’t liked what I heard I would have intervened days ago. And secondly,” he pointed at Valjean. “look at him.”



Javert did. Valjean was returning his inquisitive inspection.



“Obedient but not frightened, attentive but not nervous. I rest my case.”



Javert revisited what he had thought the first time they had discussed Valjean, that Renault had no idea what this man was capable of. Or, maybe more importantly, what this little martyr would bear patiently until an opportunity presented itself to run away. It was foolish to compare him to some ordinary submissive and judge him by ordinary standards.



“What I think is that for this specific convict, I consider you a more effective means of keeping him on the straight and narrow than Toulon. Which reminds me that we have to take care of some formalities.” He reached for the diplomatic pouch he had brought with him and opened it. Some sealed letters were taken out and placed in a secure distance to the plates, then a document, which was placed with dramatic elan in front of Javert.



“Documentation; Nobody will be able to say the collaring isn’t legal, it only needs your signature. A copy will be filed at 

Les Archives de l'état.

 My account of the collaring.” Another, this time sealed envelope joined the pile. ”And those letters over there. I wanted to ask you for a favor.”



“How may I be of service?”



“I have sent a preliminary report ahead already but I want to make sure that these arrive safely. And since you have a personal interest in the proceedings I would rather use you instead of a regular dispatch rider. And the diligence is out of the question. It would, I fear, only end with another ruptured post bag.”



Javert carefully gathered everything. One of the letters had Chabouillet’s name. Explaining himself to his patron wasn’t a conversation he was looking forward to.



“There is a small stipend that will be added to your salary. Nothing of note, a pittance really, but it is an approximation of what a prisoner costs the state. Since you are taking over his care, it will be redirected to you. Clothes will be provided as well for your departure. And this-”



He pulled something out of a coat pocket. It was a leash. Sleek, black and of a quality Javert would be reluctant to pay for.



This beautifully crafted leash would look like a greyhound coupling with a street mutt if he attached it.



“I prefer my manacles and a connection chain. It’s more practical considering my submissive is a convict.” And he didn’t want to accept something expensive.



“Not every occasion calls for chains, they can get in the way. Keep the leash, I consider it my duty to fully equip a sub I have given into your care. My servants will remove the table tomorrow morning. I wish you a good night.” And with those words, he took his leave without giving Javet another possibility to argue.



“Why are you still kneeling, I doubt it is to your taste.” Javert was tired, his head was ringing and he had no patience left.



“My legs have gone numb, I can’t get up without assistance. Would you please-”



Javert didn’t wait for the sentence to be finished he gripped Valjean under an right armpit and pulled. And then had to hurry to catch the other man, when it became clear that his legs weren’t up for the task of keeping him upright.



“

Merde

,” Valjean hissed and pressed his forehead against Javert’s shoulder, overcome, his breaths hard and fast. “There must be a trick to using that bench,” he finally murmured but made no attempts to extradite himself.



“I’ll try to find you a rule book.”



Valjean laughed weakly. “Of course, you would.”



There was something insidious about the way muscles shifted sinuously under the soft banyan and his hands that had been absent when it was clinically skin on skin. Javert stared straight ahead and listened to the breath that waved against his cheek and minutely ruffled his sideburn.



“You know where this is leading to, yes?” Javert asked.



“It is pretty obvious, non? But why are you so reluctant, I thought eventually warming your bed was a likely aspect of accepting your collar. The way you sometimes stare at me can’t be misinterpreted.” There was a hint of bitterness in his voice but Valjean kept his position in the policeman’s arms.



“A lot of people seem to think so but no, it is not. Just because my prick has taken a liking to you, does not mean that it is inevitable. I thought we agreed? Your body belongs to the Law which is I! Your soul belongs to God but your submission is still yours to give freely as far as I am concerned.”



Valjean guffawed. “Somehow I don’t want to imagine what you would do if I flirted with another Dom.”



No, that would not be pretty but it wasn’t the point at the moment. “You are trying to make light of the situation. Don’t.”



Another thought occurred to Javert. “Are you even submissive by nature?” The penal system was designed to erase a person’s civilian identity and it did warp the convicts; sometimes the legal submission warped a personal dynamic. Javert had observed it often enough and thought they deserved it, that they needed to be taught to obey.



“Ah.” Valjean’s hands were hesitantly touching Javert’s back. He didn’t seem to know what to do, and let them fall away again. “What a question. I don’t know if I should laugh or cry, but yes, from what I’ve dreamed about since a young age I prefer to be submissive in private. Everything goes faintly indistinct and calm sometimes when you… feed me. Not always but sometimes; Like tonight. It’s a very strange sensation.”



“You were never in a relationship before you were sentenced? No sweet little milkmaid or a stripping neighbor’s son?” Javert asked.



“No. By the time I was old enough for wondering about my dynamic, I was more concerned with my stomach than my cock. Starvation leaves nothing but desperation and apathy for any need that isn’t required for survival.”



“And during your time as the mayor?” There had been enough people hungrily eying the fine form Madeleine made in his frock coat.



Valjean turned his head enough to sent him a derisive glare. “You know the answer to that surely, you can’t be that oblivious.”



“Don’t get insolent with me!” It was easy as breathing, he didn’t even have to think too much about it, his fingers found Valjean’s nape, the hair tickling his skin not long enough to provide a good handhold. Javert searched the other man’s face and then narrowed his eyes. “Maybe the question should be ‘why are you insolent with me’?



Valjean’s eyes flickered.



“Or, alternatively, ‘why are you trying to provoke me’?” Javert tilted his head.



There was no answer. Just a jutted-out chin. Or maybe, Javert thought, he had been wrong the third time as well and the crucial word in that sentence should be ‘test’ instead of provoke which begged the question of why Valjean had the bad survival instincts to do this when Javert was already at the end of his patience.



“The devil will I do and play your game. Very well.” He turned to fetch one of his most trusted instruments of discipline, his manacles. It was time to end this evening and let tempers cool down. They were both overwrought.



Fast as a snake Valjean snatched one of Javert’s hand and dragged it to the base of his neck half hidden with the banyan’s collar. There was no resistance by a startled Javert, and while Valjean jerked the captured hand back and forth, the captured fingertips dragged across scar tissue.



“These aren’t the result of a tumble, of a strong preference or of play gone wrong. They can’t be mistaken for anything else but their true origin. Even if I had been interested in cultivating a private arrangement with a local Dom: How to explain such to someone who only knows Madeleine and not Valjean?”



Javert could have taken his hand away easily now but he let it rest where it lay.



“None,“ Valjean emphasized the word and needed a second before he continued. ”None of the marks on my body are the result of anything good.” He took a few deep, calming breaths and pressed his lids together, a slight tremble shaking his body. “And you know your answers, you did not need my words!” he finally hurled at his long-time adversary. “You once tried to identify me by them.”



“All true.” Javert acknowledged. “But everything you’ve said, despite the words being logical, doesn’t tell me why you do your level best to make your situation worse by making me angry.”



Valjean swallowed heavily. “Because it is something I do know how to do. And everything else seems strange and unfamiliar.”



And he knew how to anger Javert very well indeed. But if the convict appeared to be confused and flailing to make sense of his world, the former guard wasn’t much better off. There was no chance that he would solve the riddle that was Valjean’s mind tonight.



“You are in no shape to attempt a rational conversation or a well-reasoned reaction. I wanted to know if you are aware of the developing dynamic between us, nothing more.”



Javert pointedly wriggled his still captive fingers. Valjean let go as if scalded by hot water.



“It doesn’t excuse your bad behavior though. I will deal with your injuries tomorrow morning instead of now. Go, lay down at your usual place. It’s time for you to pay the piper.”



Javert took a few restraints off the wall, the chains chimed and swayed and then fetched his own manacles. They weren’t padded, but in contrast to the more playful sort he would be able to lock them.



Valjean had obeyed and was watching him, kneeling naked on the carpet by the bed, the lines around his mouth more pronounced than normal. The banyan had been folded and placed on the bedspread and the sheet and quilt were lying in a neat stack ready to be used.



“Good,” praised Javert and ordered the restraints. “I want you to not say a word until tomorrow and then it should better be an apology for your imprudence.”



Valjean’s lips opened but before he could say a word Javert hushed him.



“I don’t want to hear anything now. Nod and shake your head for providing answers if I ask you something. You used your voice for a destructive purpose, so I don’t want to hear it for some time. Do you understand?” He kept his voice even and low.



A slow nod.



“Good. Stretch out at your side, get comfortable.” He waited for Valjean to obey and showed no impatience when it took some time. The sub was eying him with obvious confusion.



“Very good,” he praised again and took the spare bandages he had fetched as well, wound them carefully and not too tight around Vajeans wrists. Two he curled up loosely and set them aside. Then he closed the leather restraints around the man’s ankles, checked that they were correctly fastened and connected with a short chain that would enable Valjean to move a little but not get up easily. His professional manacles went around the wrists, an encore of the time he had arrested Valjean, but this time he shoved the bandages he had prepared in the open spaces between manacles and bandage-covered skin. This wasn’t supposed to hurt, no pain was allowed. The last step was using a long chain to link the lower and upper set of restraints, and the surplus was long enough to be flung over one of the hooks that had been conveniently driven low into the wall beside the bed.



This arrangement wouldn’t stop someone like Valjean for long, if he wanted to flee in earnest, but that wasn’t the point.



“Are you in pain other than from your injuries? Don’t lie,” he demanded.



Valjean shook his head no.



“You value your ability to move freely so highly. For being insolent and trying to provoke me I will take that away for the night.”



Valjean stared at him wild-eyed.



“No, don’t protest.” He straightened and turned, restless movement accentuated with clinking sounds in his wake. He collected something from the table and set it down beside Valjean’s bound hands. It was the little dinner bell Renault had left behind.



“If you are in distress, if you have need of the chamber pott or if there is any other good reason to wake me up - and keep in mind that we are working with my definition of a good reason - ring the bell. Instead of raising your voice to call out.”



Again he demanded to know if Valjean understood, and again he got an affirmative nod. Javert arranged the sheet more securely and then tugged the quilt in place. He ignored the slight tremble and the bemused stare.



“The evening has been long and exhausting, try to get some sleep.” He took care of his own evening routine and then slipped between the sheets.



TBC


*published 1719 so it is likely that Valjean would have read it.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



There was a certain satisfying dichotomy inherent in this picture, Javert thought and leaned back in the chair of the beautiful desk. It could have easily held pride of place in an office, say, a 

Mairi

. And this time it was Javert sitting here with Valjean standing on the other side of it and awaiting his orders.



He severely doubted that Valjean wasn’t reminded about scenes from their past as well.



The night had passed without any incident, Valjean hadn’t rebelled against the punishment and had abided by the rules beautifully. It was doubtful that he had done it out of respect, but Javert would take what he could get for now. After removing the restraints he also retracted the order not to talk. Valjean had given a formally worded apology for provoking Javert the night before but hadn’t said anything additionally since, not during their now-established morning routine, not during breakfast, and not since.



They would have to talk about the issue. Letting it fester would create more problems and it wasn’t as if they could avoid each other. But not in the immediate future, he stood by his opinion that Valjean wasn’t healthy or stable enough to be rational about some topics.



“Your hands, hold them out,” he demanded coldly.



Valjean did as ordered, his face impassive.



They were smaller than his own paw-like hands, more narrow and with surprisingly slender fingers disguising the underlying strength. The swelling had gone down and no longer distorted the appendages. Javert sighed. Even the hands were deceptive.



“How well can you bend and move your fingers without the pain getting intense? Demonstrate.”



He watched with single-minded focus, attention darting between Valjean’s hands and his face.



“It looks like you won’t be able to hold a pen, at least not with the result being legible. I am working on my official report,” he gestured to the sheets of paper in front of him. “and most of what is left to be recorded is detailed financial information. I will ask questions, you will answer them to the best of your knowledge and I’ll write it down. Easy enough, non?”



Valjean had shifted into something that loosely resembled a soldier’s at-attention posture “As you wish. I left some of the details to the discretion of my agents so I might not be able to disclose everything you might want to know.”



Oh, Javert had heard such prevarications from people before on the job, often when he had questioned a rich merchant about his accounts to divvy up illegally imported wares and the regularly taxed merchandise. He truly, deeply hated financial doublespeak, it gave him headaches.



He put down the pen and massaged the bridge of his nose. “What did you order your agent to do? And who was the agent?”



“That I will not tell you, I do not want you to haunt him.”



Javert growled.



Valjean smiled faintly. “Exactly. He did not know about my status as a parole breaker and he agreed to carry my messages without being aware of the content, nothing more. You will not get any useful information out of him, he does not have them.”



“That’s for me to decide! But we will come back to it.” And if push came to shove he could always question the townspeople of Montreuil-sur-Mer. As long as Madeleine hadn’t used a stranger someone must have an idea of who was sent on errands far and wide.



“What were the instructions you have given to your lawyer-”



“Monsieur André Lorraine-Hyot, of Paris.” Valjean provided unasked.



Javert made a note and ignored the interruption. “And when did you contact him?”



“I wrote the letter to Lorraine about three hours after you offered me your resignation.”



“I-” hissed Javert, “offered my resignation to Madeleine, who I thought I had wronged and insulted. I offered it to a lie! Not to 
you.
”



“I am Madeleine as well as Jean Valjean.”



Javert nearly lunged over the desk to shake some sense into him. “If you were Madeleine in reality instead of through your criminal exploitations, we wouldn’t be having this conversation!”



He needed a few seconds more to calm down, and Valjean wisely kept silent, just shifting slightly from foot to foot. The healing blisters must be smarting, but Javert had no compassion left at the moment.



“How did you divide up your fortune? And how much was there to begin with.” This would be what his superiors wanted to know.



“I don’t know the exact amounts, I told you no lie. I asked Lorraine to create a trust for Cosette with two hundred thousand francs-”



“How much?!?” croaked Javert after he managed to get some air back into his lungs.



“Two hundred thousand,” the menace serenely repeated, annunciating every syllable clearly. “With himself as one of the trustees and the other being Sister Simplice and if she died another nun of her choice. The rest-” He shrugged his shoulders.



“How much can there have been left?” Javert nearly didn’t want to ask.



“My false Jett was a good alternative for Gagat and in high demand, I didn’t want for earnings, honest earnings. After the lawyer’s portion and some minor bequests for some charitable projects? I specified that what was left on my account should go to the Church, which should have been approximately another ninety thousand.”



Good Lord. “Let me clarify, you wasted a fortune on that undeserving brat and the rest you threw at the Church. Are you insane?”



“It wasn’t as if it would do me any good in prison and it was honestly earned money. And I protest the declaration of Cosette as undeserving, she’s a seven-year-old child and innocent.”



Javert asked as many questions as he thought he needed, approximate numbers on the donations, trick questions in the hope Valjean would stumble, and finally how much he had paid for everything in between. He had wrung out what was possible from the convict, then took his time documenting the information. Javert slowly sat back and closed the file, the official duty done.



Nobody who had lived in a household with Thénardier would be able to claim innocence. “Cosette is the bastard child of a whore.”



Valjean flinched but let immovable facts stand. He could hardly argue against them.



“You are not her father?” Javert began to align his arguments with that question at the front.



“No, of course not! Fantine was young enough that she could have been my daughter! I wronged her and contributed to her downfall, thus I feel responsible to care for her daughter because she can’t. Because of me.”



Oh, for God’s sake, Valjean’s martyr tendencies would make a saint curse, the amount of time Javert had used the Lord’s name in vain lately alone was alarming! Javert began to lecture Valjean and had problems keeping his voice down and cold.



“No. Let me be clear about this, you are not responsible for her poor decisions! It was she who slept with someone without a formal courtship and the security of a collar, it was she who left her daughter with those innkeepers, and it was she who lied, and when her lie was discovered sold her submission for money. She could have skipped town, for example. It was her flawed and weak character that started the sad tale. There was no reason to waste money on her brat.” He counted down with the help of his finger, ticking each up with fervor.



“That is your opinion. I do not believe that I wasted anything. Fantine must have been nearly a child herself when she fell pregnant. I blame the man who seduced her! I gave Cosette a chance to live a life her mother would have wanted her to have,” countered Valjean.



“The child didn’t earn that. Hard work and a strict moral code would have better helped her avoid falling to the weakness her mother might have passed down to her daughter. Her place in the convent school, yes, that I can agree with but the fortune you bestowed on her? That is detrimental!” Javert exclaimed.



“How can you say that she is undeserving, you have met her, didn’t you? She has endured hardship, you told me her caretakers were scoundrels, let her be a protected child for once!” Valjean was distressed, practically begging Javert with his eyes to see things from his perspective.



What rubbish! An angry hiss escaped between Javert’s bared teeth. His grey eyes alight with a near-fanatical fervor he heaved himself up and then leaned over the surface of the desk to face to face with the convict. “No, Valjean, people like us, those from the gutter, we have to fight our way up, we have to claw our way out with tooth and nail, to distinguish ourselves and prove that we deserve a place in the light. Or it means nothing!”



Valjean sighed and looked at him, damn him, like he pitied Javert. “You sound like you are a wolf fighting for his place in his pack. We aren’t wolves, surely, who thrive only if they are strong enough to survive. We are human, we have human reasoning and human capability for mercy and love.”



Javert smashed the palms of his hands onto the surface of the desk hard enough to make it rattle. “Mercy? Look what your mercy has bought you.” he deliberately drilled his gaze into Valjean’s and then let it wander downwards, taking note of every scar and blemish in the way.



“That is on me, those were my choices, and they were the wrong ones from the moment I picked up that stone to smash the window. I know that I am not a good man, not so different from any other man maybe, but not without weakness. But you can’t convince me that helping an innocent child rise above her circumstances is the wrong thing to do.” Valjean hesitated. “People from the gutter like us, what do you mean?”



“It means exactly what it sounds like!” Javert flung out with force. “I was borne inside a jail to a whore and a convict. And why are you surprised, you should know, I told you!”



“I would remember being taken into your confidence.”



Oh, that infuriating man, taken into his confidence indeed! “The night I arrested you, we were arguing and pretty much those were my words.” And Javert had regretted saying them as soon as his rage had run out. He had agonized about sharing something so personal with a convict who didn’t deserve to know, he had been furious that his temper had gotten the better of him. Just like now. And it was that thought that provided the shackles that tied down the beast.



Javert had agonized over showing weakness in front of the convict by baring his soul. Now it turned out that Valjean hadn’t listened.



“Oh. Apologies, but that evening my attention was on your sword, not on your words. It was a more imminent danger, you must agree.” Valjean had begun to sway on his feet and Javert remembered that this wasn’t the healthy man opposing him with a piece of wood.



“Sit down before you fall down,” he ordered and dragged his chair around the desk, pushed the convict none too gently into it, and leaned back against the heavy piece of furniture. 



“I listened to your words though. You were ready to overwhelm me, even kill me one moment and then you gave up. You could have won, the fight was close*. Why did you stop? Certainly not for my benefit.”



“If you believed I would go that far you should have brought your gendarmes with you instead of leaving them to guard the entrance and exits.” Valjean suddenly looked older than his fifty-three years, more aligned with the color of his hair. ”The last thing I wanted, was to get thrown back into prison and for a second I was prepared to do anything to prevent such a fate. I panicked, nearly didn’t stop myself, I nearly damned my soul. But I caught myself.



“I only knew hate once, only fight. I too was a wolf disguised as a man. I know you’ve met him. One man showed me mercy and changed me. One. A good man, full of compassion. It wasn’t the amount he gifted me with, it was the gesture itself that made me listen. The silver he gave me was only important in so much that it broke through my hate, to be given something precious, to be considered someone who deserves something precious. To know that someone sees you as worthy of love, of a chance.” Valjean turned his head aside, his eyes burning and his hands clasping at his own wrists across his body.



Yes, Javert had read about the silver that Valjean didn’t steal, supposedly. The Bishop’s generosity might be a noble example to emulate, but a short-sighted one. For one second Javert wondered if Valjean was seeing his own nieces and nephews in ever gamin’s face, if that added oil to the saint’s burning soul. It hadn’t been a mystery to anyone in Montreuil-sur-Mer that the mayor indulged the children of the town, and that he was more inclined to help a struggling family than anyone else. But it was foolish. One coin could not alter the fate of a person, like one bread wouldn’t have prevented a child’s death for more than a few days.



“If you falter once, even worse if you falter and succeed, that flaw in your character will take root to feed criminal leanings and lead that person astray if they aren’t taught the meaning of the Law; or at least learn to fear it enough to counteract the criminal urges. That is what I believe.” Javert explained.



Valjean nervously licked over his lips to moisten them. “Isn’t that what you are saying, that I will never be anything else in your eyes than a thief at heart?”



“Valjean, you exasperate me at every turn. Now it is you who knows the answer already.” Javert was back to massaging the bridge of his nose. “Why do you care about my opinion?”



“I always cared. I can’t say that my feelings for you were ever of the softer kind, you hardly invoke those, but I have always respected you. And Jav- Monsieur, I do not want to spend however long this,” He indicated the collar, “lasts- I do not want to live my existence as a wolf, but I do not want to be defined as a,” Valjean scrunched up his face and searched for the appropriate word. “penal burden you have to bear either.”



“Try to be a little bit less dramatic, please.” Javert sighed and pressed his fingers harder down. The half-strangled laugh that reached his ears didn’t help.



But did he really think Valjean was irredeemably flawed? The words imply that he did have come easily enough, but… The last days had been ripe with revelations. Entertaining the thought that he had been wrong about one more essential concept was daunting. If a respected officer could use his power to break the law, and resort to the mindset of a criminal, couldn’t a convict’s good deeds spring from a righteous mind? That, if he was honest, he still couldn’t quite believe - if he could it would make their coexistence less contemptuous. They had to find a way to make the best of this situation. His duty was clearly defined, no matter everything else: keep his sub out of trouble. And duty would hold Javert steady as always, but would it be enough?



“You are correct insofar as that you aren’t going to be free of me soon, we have time to figure everything out. A lot of time for you to prove to me if I am wrong or right,” he finally said.



They contemplated each other.



“Back to Cosette.” Javert restlessly crossed his ankles and unearthed his glare, it wouldn’t do for the other man to believe he had gained any ground.



“Sister Simplice is one of the kindest people I’ve ever met, Cosette is in good hands. The lawyer has a solid reputation and will not let her squander her money, it is something I specified with restrictions. I did not throw a fortune at a little girl without any forethought, no matter what you may think.”



“Are you looking for praise? But yes, I am deeply surprised that you didn’t rely solely on a child’s character and a prayer.” Javert paused. “Simplice will coddle her.”



“It could be argued that you’ve become a patron by proxy and that it would fall to you to teach her right from wrong and how the world works outside the convent. Or maybe she will take the veil.”



Javert could feel how his face did something complicated and he let his glare intensify when he saw how Valjean’s lips pressed together so they wouldn’t betray a smile.



“You think that is funny, do you? And I thought your involvement in the brat’s life has already ended?



“Not by choice,” Valjean calmly said.



“If you ever run from me the first thing I will do is search for Cosette,” Javert grumbled.



Valjean inclined his head. “As much as I want to see to her welfare personally, not having the Albatros of a convict on the run dragging her down would serve her better.”



“That was not a definite denial I’ve heard! One of your most persistent tendencies is that you believe that you know best. Better than the Law,” Javert said and straightened a little bit.



“And one of your most persistent tendencies is to only see the worst in people.”



“I am not proven wrong often.” Javert reached back to where he had put it and presented the file to Valjean. “Anything you want to add?”



Valjean studied the folder for a few seconds then had his eyes back at the man holding his chains. “No, nothing.”



“Then you are dismissed, leave me to my work.”



Still leaning against the desk Javert watched how long fingers tapped a faintly familiar rhythm on the chair’s backrest before Valjean fully turned away.



There were enough files he had brought for study along the journey, and observations he had jutted down into a notebook, to occupy his time. He had packed them to work on them if an opportunity presented itself. Valjean was not the only - and not the most dangerous - criminal in France. The other policemen had regarded him like he was spouting nonsense when he asked to be given information about the most pressing matters in his assigned arrondissement to take with him, but he was hardly responsible for their laziness.



He was deep into a report about a prolific gang called the Patron Minette when Javert became aware that his left hand was softly tapping out the completed rhythm Valjean had only hinted at.



It was a mournful prisoner’s song chanted by the convicts when they worked.



After he was finished he carefully closed the file and reached for the thickest one he had in his possession, Valjean’s. He began on the first page, reading carefully.



++++



The first thing d’Ivry grumbled before he added a greeting like an afterthought, was that he was not a mule lugging around packages. The offending lumpy bag was dropped at Javert’s feet before the physician began to commandeer his patient around.



Javert picked it up with a shake of his head. He had been ordered to fetch d’Ivry’s physician’s bag from one end of the room to the other more than once and it was at least twice as heavy as this, it could not have burdened the doctor too much.



“What is this?” he asked.



The physician had already bullied Valjean into sitting down on the bed and was poking and prodding him.



“Something our dear Commissaire forgot to deliver to you yesternight. It would go much faster if you looked into it and found out for yourself,” answered d’Ivry without turning around. “And you, lie down on the bed, that’s a good lad. I will not risk dislocating my lower back to reach your feet. Those bandages look disgraceful.”



Javert kept an ear on them and opened the bag. It contained clothing, and that much was immediately apparent. He pulled them out. Trousers, small clothes, a simple shirt with string fastenings instead of buttons- all of them clean and not new, made of cheaply dyed, roughly weaved fabric. At a glance, they would fit Valjean. Renault had said something about equipping the submissive with essentials, and he had delivered on his promise.



“You seem to be more displeased than normal with my progress, 

Monsieur le Docteur

?” asked Valjean after d’Ivry had regaled them with a scathing treatise on different occasions where patients had disregarded his expertise and had ended in the infirmary or worse, the morgue.



d’Ivry glared. “I would be in a better mood if people learned to follow my instructions to the letter. When I say apply the salve trice a day, I mean three times, not four, not two: three.”



“Has he done himself some harm?” Javert asked and ignored that it had been himself that had judged sleep more important.



“No.” admitted the doctor and his mustache twitched. “Most of the blisters have healed correctly and even the worst ones aren’t watery anymore, he can walk on them if he is careful. But that was not a certainty. The last thing I need now is another patient. Our dear Commissaire has a bee in his bonnet, and is in the process of filling my infirmary up to the rafters.”



Javert felt deeply uncomfortable. He didn’t care for the doctor’s choice of words. The man had no business using such disrespect towards his superior expressing such in front of a stranger no less, which made it doubly damning.



“That is hardly our business, it sounds like an internal matter,” he chastised and waited for the man to catch his meaning.



d’Ivry glare increased in strength, unimpressed. “Oh, I’m delighted to share the bounty of my ire, especially since you two are at the root of the upheaval. Commissaire Renault rarely involves himself with the daily matters of the Bagne, he has his lieutenants to do it for him. And suddenly he changes his mind, and calls the shift captains and their little spies into his office for a detailed debrief. Whatever they told him, it sent him into a rage.



“And now he is busy having most of the guards and half of the company punished, all crosses in the employee punishment square will be in use for days, which means that I will be busy as well.”



Javert could have said something about that. Maybe add that it was d’Ivry’s job to head the infirmary, no matter how empty or full; or maybe he could have noted that Renault should have kept a closer eye on his prison before; he might have also pointed out that Valjean’s condition was a symptom of the problem, not the cause.



But he said nothing. It wasn’t his place.



Still grumbling under his breath the doctor moved onto Valjean’s hands.



“Not bad either.” Despite his ill-temper, d’Ivry’s hands were careful while they wound the new bandages.



“

Monsieur le Docteur

-” Javwert began.



“Yes, yes I know what you want to ask: you will be able to travel with him, let me take a look at his back and I’m done. Give him another night and as long as you don’t use him to drag a curricle, or something else unreasonable, he should not suffer a relapse. Or make the other travelers stare and wonder where the mummy has come from.” d’Yvry tugged the end of a bandage under a fold to secure it.



Javert didn’t care one iota about what fellow travelers would think. Human nature leaned itself to always conjure up the worst possible explanation for everything, why should he cater to their feeble constitutions and morbid tastes?



The bag wasn’t only holding a set of clothes, there was a pair of rough shoes on the bottom with a stocking shoved into each. None of the pieces of garment looked like they had been once a 

gard chiourme’s

 plain clothes, they were likely the former possessions of a newly incarcerated convict. Not the most pleasant source of origin, but beggars can’t be choosy. Javert stilled at that thought and wrinkled his nose. But an inspector, first-class, wasn’t a beggar now, was he? Javert would never ask but he wished Renault’s peculiar generosity would have included better quality clothes instead of a fancy leash.



A warm coat, for example, the one provided for was too thin. It was fine enough to be worth a few coins and that was the use it would be put to. Javert pictured Valjean wearing these, pictured him walking with Javert down a street, and it reaffirmed that it just wouldn’t do. Even with their particular circumstances in mind, a submissive wearing Javert’s collar would be clothed adequately. It was a point of pride.



Maybe the tailor in the Rue Saint-Paul was still selling second-hand clothes. They would be of respectable quality and within his budget. Javert did a quick mental inventory of the funds he had taken with him to Toulon and nodded to himself.



d’Ivry was still haranguing Valjean about proper care like a shrewish housewife with her downtrodden husband.



And Valjean, for the first time since he had come into Javert’s care, had enough to show it to a stranger. “I am grateful for your dedication, Monsieur, but what warrants the special treatment? A week ago you would probably have spat on me instead.”



“I don’t spit on people as a rule,” sniffed d’Ivry and poked Valjean’s back to make him lie flat again. ”Forgive me for being enthusiastic about treating and then seeing someone walk out of this hellish place in a good condition.”



“There’s a saying among forçats: That one over there? Pray to never meet him face to face, he likes it here.” There was restless shuffling and Valjean shifted his head from one side to the other.



“I have met such people, both inmates and wardens.” The doctor’s gnarly fingers carefully pressed down on the edge of the biggest welt which hadn’t closed fully yet. “You have no cause for worry, I do not like working in this hellhole. ”



Javert put the clothes in a neat pile instead of interfering. If d’Yvry wanted to shut down imprudence he would do so and instead, he seemed to be delighted by Valjean’s behavior.



A folded handkerchief and an envelope with his name in neat cursive on top slipped out from between two garments. Javert picked the items up and took them over to the bed.



“I always took pride in doing my duty correctly,” mentioned the former guard and opened the missive. Javert’s eyebrows rose and he pocketed both the letter and the cloth.



“Yes, you are that sort, aren’t you?” said d’Ivry. “He wasn’t on the list you mentioned?” He pointed at Javert with a casual flick of his hand that didn’t match the cold calculation on his face.



Valjean’s visible eye focused on the tall Dom. “I shouldn’t say.”



“Oh, I am interested in the answer myself,” drawled Javert, staring at the older Dom.



“He had his own section.” Forced calmness made Valjean’s voice precise with a hint of challenge. “‘Don’t do something that warrants his attention.”



“An imminently sensible rule, I must say,” encouraged the physician, making no effort to resume his examination until he was satisfied and had learned what he wanted.



Javert huffed and crossed his arms. “You were never good at following sensible advice Valjean.”



The brown eye closed. “Most of the other guards were lazy bastards-”



“A fact that hasn’t changed, my boy,” interrupted d’Ivry, a soft but stinging rebuke in his voice. “But you might watch your vocabulary, or you will indeed draw a certain someone’s negative attention, hm?”



“Most guards, when they punish, they lose interest and force after a few lashes. Then sometimes things get bloody because their swing gets erratic and- but that is beside the point. With… “ the con faltered for a moment. “

adjudant-gard-chiourme

 Javert, when he punishes he hits with force and the last swing has the same impact as the first; he never miscounts. With the others, we could get away with a bruising.”



Javert took note of the changing of tenses in those sentences.



“With him, we felt it for days if not for longer.”



“As you should,” Javert added grimly.



“Hm, not the pleasurable kind of punishment at all but there is something to be said for consistency,” d’Ivry interrupted their little spat. “Consistency is an asset in all areas of civilized life, especially medical care. You-” he pointed at the inspector. “aren’t hopeless at healing like I feared, you will be able to graduate to the biggest jar soon.”



d’Ivry gave a conciliatory little pat to Valjean’s shoulder, which made the inspector bristle, got up with a slight wince, and then ambled over to the desk and the ever-present jars. He took the mentioned one and unscrewed the top, checking the level before closing it again.



“It’s not essential for survival but it keeps the skin flexible and prevents excessive scarring. It can reduce old scar tissue when massaged in regularly. Don’t use this on open wounds and sores, it would sting horribly rather than help.” d’Ivry pressed it into Javert’s hand.



Valjean rolled around onto his back and sat up in bed to follow their discussion.



“It wasn’t listed in your instructions. Not a good way to avoid confusion.” The jar was thrown back in a nice little arc at the physician who caught it easily



“Don’t be such a sour puss. I trusted your intelligence to not use unknown medicine indiscriminately. Dittany, marigold and rosehip seed oil.” d’Ivry unscrewed the top again and sniffed the salve. “No camper, it smells good in addition to being useful. Liniment would work too to a lesser extent, but who wants that on their skin? You can get a refill of this in every good apothecary.”



“If you want lubrication I can provide some, of course,” he casually threw at Javert, proving that he had been aware of the inspector’s suspicions about the content. “This salve here would work but sting a little bit. And this concludes my visit.”



A deep blush rose on Valjean’s face and he turned away, reaching for his sheet laying crumbled over the sturdy headboard. It got tangled with one of the bondage hoops and made the tug grow more pronounced.



Javert gritted his teeth.



“Monsieurs, I wish you luck on your endeavors and that you both won’t darken these steps again. If you need a consultation in the future, you know where to find me.” d’Ivry bowed.



Javert followed him to the outer door and watched him slip on his gloves. “Why did you leave that jar without instructions but with heavy implications? I will not stand being made fun of,” he asked quietly.



“If I’ve ever seen someone who needs to unbend and relax, it is you,” grumbled the physician under his breath, but not silently enough to pass by Javert’s sensitive hearing. “To make you pay attention,” d’Ivry added aloud and met Javert’s narrowed eyes serenely with his own.



“Attention,” scoffed Javert.



“Hm, yes. Attention. You will figure it out, no doubt. I regret a little bit that you won’t be around for me to see how that plays out. And, my dear inspector, those-” d’Ivry reached out and tapped his gloved fingers against Javert’s right shirtsleeve hard enough to produce a faint knock. “You should wear those on the outside now, 

non

?” With that and a quirked eyebrow he stepped outside.



Javert, on the other hand, would not regret seeing the back of this place and the irritating people residing here. He returned to the chamber and found Valjean, with the sheet wrapped around himself like some decadent Roman senator and turning the offending jar this way and that.



“The needling he indulged in.” There was a furrow on Valjean’s forehead and he was tapping at his lips again, a nervous tick Javert was learning to pay attention to.



“Yes?”



“It felt intrusive, interfering. I do not care for it.” Voice firm, eyes clear; Valjean was beginning to sound more and more like his old self.



“I did not care for it either.” Javert pulled out the folded piece of cloth that had accompanied the letter. “The clothes over there are for you, courtesy of the Bagne administration. I doubt you would have been allowed to board the diligence wrapped in a sheet.”



Valjean curiously glanced at Javert’s hand on his way to the desk, but his attention was drawn to the offering. Delighted touches and an appreciative hum accompanied his survey. He held up the shirt.



“This will serve nicely. May I please have use of your pen and a sheet of paper to write a letter to express my gratitude? A short missive shouldn’t tax my fingers.”



“You might want to withhold your enthusiasm until you have seen this provided accessory.” Javert stepped behind Valjean, so near he could see his breath move the fine hair on the other man’s nape, and put the items in question on the folded clothes.



“Oh.” Hesitant fingers touched a small metal plate the length of a pinkie finger. It was a pendant shaped rectangularly with rounded corners and blunted edges made of brass with a simple round hole at one end. A cheap narrow chain had been looped through, the ends connected with a simple minuscule clasp.



Valjean stared. There, in simple numbers and letters, the pendant showed his prison number, 9630 and the letters TP: travaux forcés à perpétuité**. It mirrored the brand on his chest. He flipped it. The other side was engraphed too but more finely to fit all the letters: Javert’s name, his rank as a police agent, his place of occupation and the capital letters GD.



“Garde Dominant.” said Javert.



“That’s quite…” Valjean stilled and didn’t finish his sentence.



Making him attach that tag to the collar himself seemed needlessly cruel. Javert plucked it out of unresisting fingers and bodily turned the convict around.



“Tip your head back,” he ordered and opened the small clasp. The leather strip had been worn down and polished by constantly being wrapped around his vambrace, the two rings on the front rubbed until the brass beneath shined through the silver. They had been stitched between the two layers of the collar



One of the rings was a link flattened at one side into the shape of the letter D, big enough to attach a leash, the other one was smaller and round and intended for exactly this purpose.



Javert attached the pendant and tugged on it softly to check if it was correctly closed and to make it lie flat. Valjean’s pulse fluttered beneath his touch.



“I should make sure that everything is packed and stowed away. I want to catch tomorrow’s early diligence to Paris.”



Valjean nodded. “About the letter, may I please dictate one to you if my handwriting proves to be inadequate?”



Javert sighed. “You are a glutton for punishment, aren’t you?”



The infuriating man shrugged his shoulders. “It’s only right to be polite.”



Javert shook his head and with another glance at the pendant, caught between a feeling of bone-deep satisfaction and faint disquiet, he began to order his papers into neat stacks. The ones he might want to work on during the journey on top, the others underneath.



++++



“This is not the way to the inn and the diligence station.” The words were softly spoken, nearly whispered in his ear. Valjean had tugged his head to the side, it nearly rested against his Dom’s shoulder. Voice and touch broke Javert out of his quiet ruminations. He let his eyelids sink down halfway, and tilted his head so his tophat would deeply shadow his face, and discreetly looked around.



Riding on the back of a cart that was used habitually to bring necessities from the town proper to the Bagne wasn’t a dignified way to travel. The cart rumbled and shook enough to rattle their bones and the smell wasn’t the best. Javert suspected that it had been a deliberate slight by the guards to select this vehicle, instead of whatever Renault had had in mind. The sneer and smug look their coachman sent them hinted at some foul play. Not only d’Ivry had been intelligent enough to put two and two together, and arrive at the conclusion that the Commissaire’s sudden delight in tanning hides left and right had something to do with the inspector from Paris and his strange new sub. And, not surprisingly, this had caused resentment.



Javert could have insisted on clarification and another, less crude vehicle to be fetched, but then he would have risked missing the diligence, they were already calling it close if he wanted to visit a shop before boarding the coach. It wasn’t the first time he had traveled by cart, it would not be the last time, and making Valjean walk was out of the question. Javert would suffer this indignity with his stoic resolve intact but if more than humiliation was planned he might come to regret his earlier decision to endure.



Valjean beside him was tense, his shackled hands rested in his lap balled to fists, the bandages straining.



Those irons had to go if there was trouble. Javert reached into the correct inner vest pocket to retrieve the key for the manacles. His fingertips brushed against metallic coldness but before he could pull the keys out the cart passed under an archway and the hair at the back of his nape stood in a warning.



Brutal hands reached out and pulled both passengers out of the back of the cart, not caring which body part bumped against what. The scoundrels had waited in the shadows of the archway. The coachman yelled something and let his whip crack down on the sturdy back of his pony and fled the scene.



Javert lashed out, and would sell his hide dearly, those ruffians would regret laying hands on him! He hit his head on something hard or he was hit by something, Javert couldn’t say. He bellowed his defiance and it was answered with a furious, well-recognizable roar.



“Hold him down!” was screamed not too far away and alarmed curses rent the air, the sounds of a struggle acting as background music.



“Hold him, damn it!” another voice bellowed and joined the first.



“I can’t. How?!? He’s… so damn strong.”



Something splintered and someone screeched in pain.



‘Good luck with that.’ sarcastically crossed his mind, but Javert had his own problems at the moment to worry too much about Valjean. Voracious claws tried to divest him of his coat, succeeded with his hat, with his sword. It clanged against stone or brick. He reared back and closely avoided the knife that would have sliced his neck open. Instinct and experience took over, thinking would only get him killed. Another slice was redirected with his forearm with more luck than skill but now Javert had gained a little distance.



“Kill the bastard!” screamed one of the bandits near him. Javert used his full body weight to slam the man that had come up from behind him against the wall, then backed up and repeated the manöver with his full body weight, shoving an elbow into a gut to boot. A pained bellow was his reward. But the wannabe murderer was still conscious and grabbled for Javert.



“Lil’ bit hard when he’s not holding still,” hissed the one with the knife.



No, holding still wasn’t in his plans, not at all! Javert opened his mouth and called for help as loud as he could. “

Police! Aidez-moi!

”



“Hurry! Someone will alert the other 

flics

, if they hadn’t heard anything by now. Finish him, Alain, we only need the old one. Come on!”



The two who faced off against Javert were now more cautious, the mangy dog they had expected had shown that he had sharp teeth. It gave the inspector the needed seconds to look at how Valjean was doing.



If there had been any suspicions about his sub being complicit with this attack, it had come to mind for a second, it was put to rest. The other three criminals were trying to wrangle a struggling Valjean and herd him into a corner. With little success. They might be armed with clubs and knives but they were too used to helpless victims who did not fight back.



Knife tried to use the opportunity to jump Javert but his victim had seen him coming and ducked, rolled, and snatched his sword back from where it had been flung at the beginning of the ambush. That those lowlifes had managed to disarm Javert at all was embarrassing.



Behind his back, another pain-filled cry rent the evening air. Not Valjean’s voice and Javert smiled fiercely and went on the offense again, ramming his sheathed sword against a vulnerable belly, a tempting and sizable target, and then wretched it out of the scabbard to face Knife. Something connected painfully with his left shoulder but he shook it off. Then a fist hit Javert’s jaw, and an arm snaked around his throat.



Damn it, he thought and bit down on the exposed wrist under his chin. The idiot let go and howled.



“Javert! Down!” a warning rang out.



Javert dropped down to his haunches and a plank slammed against the brick wall where his head had been a second earlier. He rolled again and managed to kick the nearest man’s feet out from under him, it was a sixth scoundrel, waiting till now, who had just entered the fight. A body hit the filthy street beside him. Javert blindly stuck his sword out and it slid into skin and flesh.



Blood sprayed in a wide arc.



“Aubrey, that cop killed Aubrey!” Knife howled.



Javert doubted it but didn’t care, he was busy fighting to get vertical again. Being down on the ground for too long was inadvisable. Those lowlifes were hampered by shock more opposition than they had counted on, and the narrow street made it more likely for them to hit their comrades on accident than him if they stayed crowded together like this, but Javert couldn’t count on it to last.



Valjean was fighting with single-minded concentration not far from Javert. He was turning the disadvantage of being shackled in his favor by interlacing his fingers and using the manacles to add force to his swings. And he was much faster on his feet than eight years without the need to fight for his life should have trained him for, weaving and turning nimbly to avoid getting hamstrung. It probably helped that his attackers weren’t out to kill him, not like they had Javert, but he was outnumbered but holding his own, and that was all that was important.



Javert called out a warning of his own when he saw one of the three picking something up from the ground, something long and metallic. Valjean turned and tackled the man before the attacker could let it crash down on him. The fight was on again, more fiercely than before.



And Javert should see to his own opponents. A rapier wasn’t the most useful weapon in a close-quarter fight like this, there was not enough room to swing properly. But the edge was sharp and the wall behind his back prevened sneak attacks but restricted his movement. He fervently wished for his cane, the sword got caught and distracted by the multiple heavy layers these men wore too easily. 



He flung one man against the other, using the momentum of an attack, and Knife went down to where Plank was softly moaning, holding his shoulder. Javert kicked out against the bent head as hard as he could. The kick connected and Javert snarled in satisfaction. The last villain standing hesitated, looked at the bloody, panting cop, his fallen colleagues in crime, and then turned around to flee as fast as his feet would carry him.



Another moaning figure took that as a hint that it was better to retreat, and was darting after his fleeing comrade with flapping coattails.



Javert furiously watched them and wondered where his own blasted colleagues were, at an evening stroll in the park? Someone must have heard his call for help or the ruckus and alerted them, surely?



He glanced at his would-be killers, made sure that they wouldn’t crawl off in the next minutes, and stumbled over to where Valjean had gone down, grappling and fighting against two loudly cussing criminals.



“Valjean!”



The convict was using the manacles as an impromptu garrote to keep one cad subdued, with the other weakly trying to get out from under the pile.



All three were a little bit worse for wear, with blood and dirt mingling in an unattractive smear on their faces but at the moment Javert wouldn’t be able to throw a stone, he wasn’t better off.



“I think,” croaked Valjean, blinking up at Javert “that you’ll need my shackles for someone else.”



“You don’t say,” Javert glared, then opened the knot and dragged his cravat off with more force than strictly necessary, and used one of the knives lying around like so much flotsam to cut it into strips. “Don’t let go just yet.”



“Not planning to, but please hurry.”



All but one of the strips got shoved into a pocket, the one left was used to tie the gasping villain’s hands behind his back.



It took the ingenuity of both Javert and Valjean to keep track of all attackers,  a lot of shuffling and gritted teeth, the one set of available shackles, sacrificing both their cravats to incapacitate all but one of their attackers before shouts and heavy bootsoles hitting the pavement at speed announced the arrival of the cavalry. Javert’s expression reflected his thoughts. Now, after the fighting was over and two culprits had escaped, now they were eager to pounce on criminals.



The three ‘helpful’ gendarmes stumbled to a halt and took in the scene. Javert, recognizable as a cop by his uniform, Valjean crouching by one downed man and checking his condition with a moe of pity on his face, the bleeding heart idiot, and three other moaning figures on the floor.



“Where have you been?” demanded Javert to know.



“It’s not the best part of town,” one gendarme placidly said and made himself useful by checking on one of the restrained unconscious perpetrators. He appeared to be immune to Javert’s outrage. A bad part of town was not a viable explanation for tardiness. This was Montreuil-sur-Mer at the beginning of Javert’s tenure all over again, before he had drilled his underlings in behaving like agents of the Law, not hoodlums.



“We thought it was another minor brawl among the vagrants, then old Louis came running and told us it involved strangers. Gérard, subdue the one over there!” He pointed at Valjean.



Yes, Valjean’s clothes were just as crummy now as the perps’ and they were the rough garments of a workman, but-



Gérard proved that he was smarter than his superior. “Eh, Sarge, I don’t think that’s right, wouldn’t the Inspector have done something about him by now?”



“No, leave him be. That one’s mine,” said Javert at the same time.



The sergeant recovered from his blunder with aplomb. “Any injuries? I can call for a fiacre. Or the cart, we need to get the scum to the jail anyway, and we’re not gonna drag them all the way on foot. But a fiacre would be more comfortable for you.”



Javert sent a questioning look at Valjean, giving him a closer once over, he noticed that Valjean did the same to him. The battle fever had subdued a lot of the minor pains; and now that he thought about it, his shoulder was smarting something awful, as did his knee where he landed on the hard uneven cobbles.



“Valjean?” Javert asked sharply for a report.



“Minor scaps only,” was the tired and clipped answer.



“Don’t make me strip you down to your underwear in front of everyone, I will do it!” threatened Javert with a quiet hiss.



Valjean stuck out his chin stubbornly but after another second he answered in more detail. “Some of the welts on my back have reopened and my hands hurt like the devil. But I know what it would feel like, if something was seriously wrong, monsieur.”



“Stay near me.” Javert would examine him later in private but for now Valjean’s word was good enough. He answered the sergeant’s earlier question. “We will accompany you to the station house. I want to find out what this was about, because it was not some random assault!”



The thoughtful reaction and then the widening of his sub’s eyes when he heard him, the way his hands flared for a moment made the investigator in Javert take notice and file it away for later.



Another two gendarmes arrived with the promised donkey cart. With so many helping hands it should have been a matter of minutes to transfer the bound scoundrels onto the loading space. Now that there was no danger anymore the streets had oozed enough spectators to fill a small theater.



Javert ignored them at first. Only when he saw that the other gendarmes, all but the youngest, were more occupied with keeping the spectators at bay than dealing with the criminals, did he begin to help pat the scum down and search for easily accessible weapons and hiding places. The expression on Valjean’s face was decidedly unhappy but then he shrugged his shoulders and joined the effort.



“You aren’t groping them surely? Or did they steal your pocket watch? We’ll search them at the station, don’t bother now.” The sergeant tried to pull him off the cart and Javert’s hand out from under a dirty coat to the spectators’ loud dithering and salacious cheers.



Javert braced himself against the tug. Before he could unleash a torrent of derision on the sergeant’s head, Valjean harrumphed and then held up his hand in the air, a lockpick in it.



“Oh,” stuttered the gendarme and ceases his tugging.



The inspector didn’t dignify that with more than one raised eyebrow but confiscated the contraband from Valjean and wrapped the offending tool in his handkerchief.



He didn’t think the criminals would appreciate it but Javert noted grimly that this cart was less odious than the one he had traveled on twenty minutes ago. Valjean and he were walking side by side behind the donkey cart which was carrying their attackers before Javert remembered his earlier observation and demanded answers. “Tell me,” he ordered with a pointed look at the pile of human filth that told Valjean that prevaricating would not be permitted.



Valjean grimaced but answered, keeping his voice low enough to only reach Javert’s ears. “The one who directed the gang, the one who ordered the others to kill you- I may be wrong, no I am sure that I am not! - I recognize his voice. He sounded exactly like one of the guards who tormented me the most. The way he swallows the end of words, the cadence - It is not something I would forget.”



“I believe you,” reassured Javert. Such an accusation would make this twice as complicated as if it was just random criminals trying to ambush travelers though. Although this suspicion provided an angle for the investigation.



“Oh.” Valjean rotated his wrists wonderingly, his quicker strides matching Javert’s long legs. “Which reminds me; The chances that we will be able to board the next diligence are slim.”



“They are nonexistent. I will rent a room at the inn for the night.” And not for one night only, Javert suspected grimly. He was very aware of the amount of work involved that followed an incident like this. Close supervision of the locals was needed, no doubt, if Javert wanted results and not incompetency. And Renault had to be contacted and read in if it was proven that there was a conspiracy involving the Bagne.



“I want my manacles back,” he sighed and waited for a smart-aleck remark from his convict.



Valjean said nothing.



 


TBC

Historical accuracy musings:*mixing brick with the musical. That confrontation rant is just too good.** travaux forcés à perpétuité: hard labor for life. Historically the prison number would not have been included in the branding, a lot of musical versions do include it though, especially because of the scene where Valjean opens his shirt to prove his identity in front of the court and the scene where Thénardier opens Valjean’s shirt. It is also a means of driving the plot forward. A simple TF for travaux forcés (without the for life) would have proven nothing if Champmatheau had the same because C had been a parolee as well. Branding wasn’t in use the first time Valjean was sentenced, in reality (which Hugo didn’t care to emulate when it didn’t fit his plan, so….). He might have warranted being branded later in his sentence due to his escape attempts (for ease of identification as a prisoner to outsiders) but as far as I remember, the court in Arras was unsure if the prison records were correct or not, hence the witness statements of fellow compatriots of 24601 and Javert’ own testimony. I never quite made heads or tails of the reasoning in the Brick and how much of it is used for what version of the story later, it gets mixed up with all the adaptations I have seen or read;


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



“The Fouchard brothers Aubrey and Alain in the esteemed company of Michel le Belette and Petit Jerome. Only René is missing. It’s nearly the whole Bagne gang. What a pleasant surprise,” a deep voice rumbled.



Javert knew that voice and allowed himself a sigh of deep, profound relief. After meeting that joke of a sergeant he had had his doubts about how this police station was run but now -



“Sir, Captain Bonnard!” came out of multiple mouths, some more enthusiastic, some less.



The man, a grizzled veteran, stood on the steps of the station house and observed the commotion in front of him like a general with undisciplined troops on a battlefield. “Dupont, your report, tell me the particulars. How did you come to arrest these… fine people.”



The burly sergeant, suddenly less sanguine, winced and looked around himself. Making some small adjustments to his story wouldn’t hold water for long. If he tried to pretty up his own contributions to these arrests, there would be an immediate protest by the Parisian inspector.



Not giving him that chance at all, Javert stepped out from behind the cart  into full few. “Captain, it is a pleasure to see you again. I can give a detailed report, who, where, and when; I’ve been present for the entire incident.” Unlike Dupont, he didn’t add in front of the company, which would be bad form, and saluted sharply.



“Well, well, well. If it isn’t Javert. Heard you’re in town, wondered if you’d come by.” Something that barely resembled a smile shifted the stony planes of the old man’s face into a configuration it wasn’t used to forming often, a smile. “Your report, Chief Inspector!” he barked.



“Sir.” Javert stepped closer and then gave a staccato of information, clipped and to the point. The only things he didn’t elaborate on were the suspected identity of one of the fleeing culprits, and the particulars about his companion and their situation. Neither of these was suited to be flung about like so much gossip.



Bonnard listened intently, one gimlet eye always on his underlings and the yard. “Very well, I expect a written incident report for my files. In the meantime, we will sort them out. It’s a pity two escaped.”



“My apologies for letting them get away,” demurred Javert, highly conscious of the silent figure in the shadows behind him.



“Bha. No use to wish for the impossible, four out of six with only one person to help you is a success. Let’s be grateful that it didn’t end with your life lost. Those cutthroats are a lethal sort, I’ve seen their handiwork and they will have a rendezvous with the guillotine as a consequence, and no mistake.”



Those last words weren’t said quietly and caused the prisoners, who were in the process of being dragged and carried into the prison of the station, to wail and curse.



“I did not know that you have taken on looking out for the civilian half of Toulon, Sir. I heard you retired fully,” Javert said.



“Retired?” His old commander huffed derisively. “Tried, wasn’t to my taste. The whole day staring at walls, walking about without purpose, bha, it’s not for me. I’ve heard about your exploits though. What a disgraceful affair, how could they mistake a lowlife bagnard for someone fit to take up the chains of office! Good on ya to see through him, boy!”



Faced with Bonnard’s disgust Javert was in a quandary. He hesitated. His old mentor’s eyes might have grown old but they seemed as sharp as ever, and there was no way to mistake the band of leather around Valjean’s throat. It was the very same one Bonnard had gifted to Javert.



The necktie that had humbly graced the con’s neck, and might have concealed the collar, was now in rags binding the wrists of a criminal. Valjean was dirty and bleeding from small nicks at his temple and jaw, the brass tag glinted fully visible at his throat; it was impossible to mistake him for someone else.



Javert motioned for his sub to come close. and was trying not to show relief when Valjean didn’t undermine him, and did what he was told. Javert touched him at the small of his back.



“Sir, may I introduce you to my collared submissive, Jean Valjean.”




“Enchanté,

” murmured the convict and performed a deep bow.



Bonnard did a double-take and his nostrils flared suspiciously. His old mentor scrutinized Javert from head to toe, and halted on the edges of the black vambraces peeking out between Javert’s uniform coat and the cuffs of his sleeves.



“I’ll be damned,” Bonnard sneered, “Never thought you’d be ruled by your cock, boy. You better come in and explain yourself.”



Valjean flinched.



“At least he’s pretty for a forçat,” Bonnard added before fully turning around.



Pretty. Javert tried to see Valjean with a stranger’s eyes. He hadn’t ever paid much attention to the turn of a face, it was all the same to him. But contemplating the standards he had heard others apply to their love interest, yes, his sub wasn’t ugly. The nose had been broken one time too many, but it had healed halfway straight. The mouth was generous and too broad to be considered handsome, and the planes of Valjean’s face were too bold and too pronounced to be considered comely.



Additionally, Valjean had been lucky to avoid disfigurement and loss of teeth during his exploits, the good citizens of Montreuil-sur-Mer wouldn’t have been so taken with him otherwise. But pretty? No, Valjean was only pretty the way a predator was. He had none of the elegance of a well-bread docile animal. The nicest features were his eyes. Those always betrayed some of his thoughts no matter how well he schooled his expression.



At the moment they were focused on Bonnard. Valjean was standing with his shoulders back and his chin slightly lowered, attentive but guarded. Javert had seen this countless times, it was a quintessential Madeleine pose when he had to deal with the likes of Bamatabois.



“Come on boy, I’ll try my best to help sort it out. I still have a few favors to call in,” Bonnard called out when he wasn’t immediately followed.



“That will not be needed, but thank you for the offer. Might I trouble you for a cot and some quiet for my sub?” Javert rubbed his thumb up and down against the rough material of Valjean’s coat, up and down.



“I’ve got some nice cozy cells on offer. And a set of manacles, you seem to have lost yours.”



Javert raised one eyebrow sardonically. “They currently decorate the wrists of one of your new borders; because your gendarmes weren’t on time to provide theirs.”



A harsh, rumbly bark wrenched itself out of the Captain. “Touché. I’ll see that you’ll get them back, well-polished. And I know the perfect candidate for the job.” Bonnard turned sharply, not looking back if he was followed this time.



The station house was an old and narrow two-story building with a separate reinforced annex that served as a jail. Bonnard led the way up a rickety staircase and gestured to a door.



“Storage room, has enough space for a cot when we need to spend the night instead of going home. All yours.” He disappeared into the room across.



“Come on,” murmured Javert and pushed.



It was indeed a small windowless room, only big enough that a man of average height would be barely able to stretch himself out on the space left beside the collected detritus of years of occupation.



Valjean stumbled a little bit, and then sank down onto the promised cot, his head in his hands. “If you think I’ll be able to rest in a small dark room in the middle of a police station, of all places, you are mistaken.”



“Rest your feet at least, have it your way otherwise. It wasn’t pulling a cart, but I doubt d’Ivry would approve of our afternoon exploitations either,” Javert admonished.



There was a long pause, neither man knowing what to say.



Valjean’s laughter, when it broke through, was subdued. “Sit, stay, hm? I might wear a name tag but at least I wasn’t dragged on a leash like a dog and I don’t need to be tethered. The captain is waiting for you. I don’t have the impression that old stone face likes me much.”



“Take care with your words,” Javert bit out. “And I don’t think you would want to be part of a conversation with Bonnard.” He paused. “Do you need help getting out of that coat?”



There was no reaction to the promise of correction. No apology either. “No. I don’t like the look of these blankets, my coat will serve me better.”



An old police lamp stood ready to be lit, a few cheap, half-melted candles inside. It was the work of a few seconds to put cinder to stone and flood the little room with light. Javert positioned it nearer to Valjean and reached out to touch one of the fresh cuts on the other man’s face. Pieces of gravel and dirt could be seen, stuck in the wounds. His own injured shoulder was pulsing in sympathy.



Valjean looked up at him with shadows in his eyes, and tilted his head thoughtfully.



“These need to be cleaned. I will return soon. You should better be here when I return.” Javert put his fingertips near one of the deepest scratches but avoided touching it directly.



“I have nowhere else to be.”



Javert snorted, snatched the lamp, and left the room with the door half-open. The lamp was deposited on the floor near the wall. The hallway had been plunged into twilight, naturally dark due to the lack of windows; if someone tried to sneak past the shadows would betray them.



He didn’t close the door to Bonnard’s office either. Trust was beginning to take hold and grow in the inspector towards the sub, but there was no reason to be stupid.



Bonnard was indeed waiting. The half-open door and the lit corridor met with an approving nod, and a slight relaxation of the old man’s posture. He didn’t ask Javet to sit down, that was not the nature of their relationship.



“There is reason to believe that the mugging has a connection to the Bagne. And Valjean.” Javert began.



Bonnard nodded. “Nothing but trouble, that one.”



It took him a minute to consider which details he was allowed to share, but since Renault was venting his displeasure rather openly, if not with official reprimands, it should do no harm to give Bonnard the information he needed to ask the attackers the right questions. “I trust your discretion, Sir. There are some details about this situation I am not allowed to disclose. There was an incident at the Bagne, where some guards tried to make Valjean give up the location of a treasure he had supposedly hidden.”



Bonnard rolled his eyes. “A hidden treasure? Oho, this gets more interesting by the minute. Go on.”



“Valjean recognized one of the attackers of today’s ambush as a guard who participated in the questioning-”



“The word of a convict! Useless!” exclaimed the captain, his palm smacking down on the desk’s surface as an additional exclamation mark.



“He has no reason to lie. And God help him if he tries to deceive me and I catch him at it,” Javert added more softly. “But beyond his words, the facts support his accusation. The attackers were reluctant to fatally injure Valjean and I heard their leader shout orders accordingly. They would need him alive to have another chance at the money they think he has hidden, and they weren’t planning to show me the same restraint,” he listed his arguments.



“Hm.” Bonnard began to pace. “The Bagne Gang, they’re tricky. We’re getting hints, we’re setting traps, and they don’t show up no matter how much we prepare. Most of the illicit trade in and out of the jail are on them.”



Javert bared his teeth. “Like they are having an informant, someone on the inside, warning them. And they are easily available for hire if the price is right, murder, blackmail on the side, I bet.”



“My suspicion too, yes,” Bonnard agreed. “The suspect’s name?”



“Molin. Dark-haired, average stature, untidy Uniform, old grease stains on it, his boots haven’t been properly shined in weeks. Reminded me of a rat,” replied Javert. “I wonder if he returned to his post if it was indeed him leading the attack. You have got four of the gang in custody now, they might reveal more when questioned.”



“I’ll make them sing, they aren’t that bright. Scum like that has no loyalty to each other so they will sell out. Pity you won’t be here for the bust, will you? I’d rather have you backing me up than my new sergeant. You’ve met him.”



“I have no doubts that you will sort him out with enough time, Sir. I will help as much as I can until I have to depart, but this is not my jurisdiction, and I have missives that have to reach Paris in time. Which reminds me, I should compose a letter to the Commissaire. With your permission?” Javert asked.



“I will deliver it myself, have to talk to him anyway.”



The way he stressed the ‘him’ made Javert’s eyebrows rise and he dared to show his curiosity. “You do not approve of Renault?”



Bonnard waved away the question with a negligent shrug of his still-broad shoulders. “Bha, could be worse, there’ve been worse commissaires, they come and go. But to appoint a sub? You need a firm hand to keep a prison in control.”



“That is rather old-fashioned of you,” Javert dared to point out. He was no longer a mere, if favored, underling, he was allowed.



“I’m an old-fashioned Dom.” The captain resumed his pacing, and Javert patiently watched him.



It took the older man a few turns to gather his thoughts. “With the official stuff finished for now - Apropos submissive. Boy, what have you gotten yourself into now? If you need your cane polished regularly, why not a subby new convict? Instead you have- that.” He added when he couldn’t find something that he thought fitting and that wasn’t an expletive.



The thought of some dewy-eyed, frightened young bagnard wearing his collar made Javert shudder. “Sir! That would lead to tears and hysterics. No!” If he wanted simple sexual gratification it would be easier to ask Chabouillet for an invite to one of the clubs that were frequented by police officers. The man had offered to do so once or twice.



“I do hope you know that I am not motivated by my baser instincts.” Javert was frankly insulted that his mentor would think him so undisciplined.



“If I hadn’t caught you rubbing one out, I’d have thought you a eunuch. But you were always fascinated by that one, weren’t you?” Bonnard reached into a vest pocket and took out a snuff box and offered it to Javert, who declined. The captain took a pint and sighed in contentment. “The small things in life, Javert, treasure them.”



Javert watched him stroke along the outer rim of the box before snapping it shut and carefully putting it back into its hiding place. The design was distinctive, the inspector had seen it years ago, in the hands of another man.



“He has a very nice pout, your con, makes one think of other, better uses for that mouth,” Bonnard sighed.



“If you say so, Sir.” It wouldn’t reassure the old man to know that at the moment Valjean’s mouth mostly got him in trouble, and his Dominant a headache.



“It’s madness, he will cause you no end of problems but I know you. Once you decide on something, there is no way to dissuade you.”



That wasn’t heartfelt approval but Javert hadn’t expected one. Meeting Bonnard reminded him of something he had read recently and that kept bothering him.



“There is something I am wondering about. I have refamiliarised myself with Valjean’s file, and found an inconsistency you might be able to clear up. The incident happened years before I began my service as a guard, so I did not witness it but you were already employed when it happened.”



Bonnard shrugged his shoulders and then brushed with his hands down his uniform to remove any wrinkles that had dared to intrude. “I’ll do my best but don’t expect too much, whatever it is must have happened a long time ago, and incidents and prisoners have faded from my memory.”



Javert nodded, he was ready to take whatever would shake loose. “I have studied his 

registré de punition

. The first five years are already riddled with disciplinary issues. Insubordination, brawls, he spat on a guard, to name a few. But nothing truly outstanding. Until the first escape attempt, in early February 1801. There are no details, and no note of a flogging and subsequent infirmary stay or even a gap in his work days, which is unusual. Do you remember?”



“Luckily for you, your pet and his escape attempts were quite memorable. We had to hunger him out to get him to climb down from a steep face once, stubborn bastard, that. February of 1801, hm.” Bonnard grumbled. “I don’t remember any significant escape attempts that year, maybe Valjean hadn’t developed his flair for the unusual yet.”



Javert kept his attention split between the open door and his old mentor. “The disconcerting thing about that date, for me, is that he would have been set free three weeks later. Valjean can be an idiot - by the Stars, he racked up nineteen years for the theft of a piece of bread- but that is extremely dumb even for him. He never received any missives for the friars to read to him, it can’t have been bad news from the outside to prompt an escape.”



Bonnard nodded and kept slowly pacing up and down.“1801 and the year before and after were hard on all of us because of outbreaks of Cholera. It was worse for the Rochefort Bagne, who in their right mind would build a prison on top of a swamp, but Toulon was affected nearly as hard. Bad years all around. Maybe he tried to escape the illness.”



Javert disagreed. “I don’t think so.”



“No, I don’t think so either, not his style.” The pacing resumed until Bonnard stopped and snapped his fingers. Then he grimaced instead of telling about his revelation. Instead, he looked out of the window. “Do you really want to know? You will not like it. I do not like it.”



“Tell me,” Javert demanded.



“I can’t say for sure, it is mostly conjecture. The convicts, at that time, were mainly used to dismantle defunct warships. Back-breaking bloody work that, not for the faint of heart. A wreck was clogging up the biggest dry dock, that I remember clearly. There was talk about the Admiralty breathing down the old commissaire’s neck because they needed the docks for repairs of the fleet.”



Javert could now guess where this was going and no, he did not like it one bit.



“A good number of our workforce was down with Cholera, some were in quarantine. We needed every able-bodied worker to meet a deadline,” Bonnard continued.



It might not even have been a deliberate breach of the procedure but indifference and avarice instead. Overlooking the release date, later backdating a false escape attempt to cover up the lapse. Javert would likely never be able to find out or prove the particulars.



“Thinking back, it was mostly green caps and other long-term prisoners who got pulled for double shifts at the dry dock. Your sub wasn’t among that number yet, but known to be able to do the work of three men - his prolific power damned him. Does it matter now, over twenty years later?”



“The second escape attempt, this time genuine, occurred six weeks later.” murmured Javert instead of answering. He could hear le Cric’s angry words about being unfairly treated, and his own scoffs and derision about such claims in his memory. Bagnards lied without exception, didn’t they?



‘God damn you Valjean and damn me even more,’ he thought.



Something in his face must have given away Javert’s thoughts, Bonnard rubbed a hand over his mouth and sighed.



“Javert, yes, it wasn’t right, but he would have been back within a few months without any interference anyways. He would have broken the law again. We’ve seen what Valjean did when he was actually released, he broke parole. Quite spectacularly in fact. And I do remember the three genuine escape attempts. It’s simply his nature.”



Maybe, maybe not. 



To hear his own damning words from another man of the Law’s lips - there was a tightness in his chest that was strangling his heart. “No, Sir. It was not his strength that damned him, it was the officer who falsified records for his own gain.”



Bonnard grimaced. “I forgot how incredibly stubborn you are.”



“How can I enforce the law when it is my own colleagues breaking it without impunity?” it broke out of Javert, betrayal making his eyes blaze.



He watched his old mentor’s face, saw him look back with calm, cold surety. “Set them straight when you can, punish what is punishable, and mitigate the fallout for the victims. And don’t stray yourself. The law is the law. Human nature is flawed, which extends to agents of the Law. You’ll have to find a way to live with it. Every policeman comes to this crossroads in their career, I’m surprised it took this long for you.”



They stared at each other.



“May I be excused? I have a submissive to take care of.” Javert finally asked with quiet dignity, and Bonnard gave a calm nod.



“Good Luck.”



Javert sketched a bow and then strode out. His mentor’s words kept echoing in his head. Combined with the revelations of the last week, they kept hammering against all Javert had thought immovable, and hard like stone. That an administrator in the past had, out of negligence or design, committed a crime - imprisoning someone for longer than their sentence was against the law - should not surprise him by now. Why had he ever thought the system infallible? Why had he been so… blind.


 


It rankled, it stung.


 


Before Montreuil, Javert had never been anything but a small cog in the machine, trusting that the bigger cogwheels did their work. He had followed orders obediently and dealt with mostly the dregs of humanity, believing them in their position because they were lazy and corrupt. But if he could not trust the system - it made everything so much more complicated.



Javert did not know how long he had been standing in the doorframe until Valjean cleared his throat. The sub did not say anything, but his eyes were compassionate and he wisely did not comment. Of course, he had listened in.



“Let us go to the inn. We both need a wash and our scraps seen to,” Javert said and ignored how rough his voice sounded.



Valjean nodded.



++++



The window was well-tended and well-made, not only sporting a single pair of glazed window panes like most townhouses but one outer and one inner pair. It would help keep the room warm in winter and keep out the worst heat in the summer. Javert had left one side open on the inner right and the outer left, creating a gap that would let fresh air in but still protect the sleepers from intrusions.



Now that same window, rather small but big enough to fit an industrious man, stood wide open, letting so much night air in that Javert’s skin had pebbled and the chill had awoken him from deep rest.



Exhaustion in body and mind must have made him sleep like the dead!



For a few seconds the implications didn’t register, he was staring a the opening like an idiot, but then the inspector sprung into action, swiftly swung his legs over the edge of the bed, and heaved himself to his feet. 



Why hadn’t he accepted a pair of manacles from Bonnard? This was what mercy leads to!



This was what being soft-hearted leads to! An evening spent in, what he had thought, companionable silence, helping each other to treat wounds, sharing a meal! By God, he had let Valjean climb behind him on the bed to massage his injured shoulder! Both men had been content and thoughtful, contemplating the day. Or not.



Javert called himself all kinds of foolish.



The night sky showed the first indications of approaching dawn and the moon was up, enough to outline every edge and object. Enough to find carefully placed boots, fob, and pocket watch with his eyes - and enough to notice that there were some things that hadn’t been there when Javert went to bed. Instead of things missing.



Javert let his clenched fist sink down slowly and instead of rushing around, he carefully lit the waiting lamp. Yes, his clothes were still sitting neatly folded on the chest that stood at the foot of the bed where he had placed them. And so where the rougher shirt and trousers Valjean had worn, but they now shared space with another set of clothes.



He turned his head and glared murder at the occupied space - of course, it was! - on the floor between the bed and window. What was Valjean playing at now?



Rounding the bed Javert glared down at the offending objects. Fine materials gave those garments volume the workman clothes would never dream of boasting, they dwarfed the other stack. On top lay an ivory-colored cravat and brown, finely made leather gloves. They matched the pair of boots that had encroached the space where his own had been placed in solitude, Javert disgustedly noted, now that sleep wasn’t making him stupid anymore.



But it was the sturdy, square satchel resting beside the boots that made him grit his teeth and make his fingers itch to wrap around a particular convict’s neck.



It was sitting innocently on the floor, with what looked like a fitted oilcloth cover folded neatly under it. The container had reinforced metal edges and was made out of thick leather. It was the sort of container that could be placed into a hole in the ground, covered with soil, rest there for years, and then be dug up without the content suffering.



Javert was on the prone figure on the floor with the righteous fury of St. Michael striking down a sinner.



“You!”



Valjean had been too still to be genuinely asleep, and he didn’t startle or protest when Javert straddled him, with angry hands trying to shake him like a ragdoll.



“You!” repeated the inspector, sputtering and not being able to force out anything else.



“I?” Valjean had the impertinence to smile up at him, and it loosened Javert’s tongue.



“Tell me that this is not a bag full of money over there. Tell me you didn’t leave this room like a thief in the night - hah! - to retrieve it, and then climb back in to go to sleep again!” The thought alone, the convict stealing out of the window with Javert sleeping a few feet away made Javert grab Valjean’s wrists as if to retroactively prevent such an outrageous stunt.



“Since when do you want me to lie to you?” Valjean asked mildly.



Sometimes soon someone, most likely Javert, would strangle the menace. “What would you have done if a gendarme had seen you and confronted you, or if one of the criminals still on the run keeping an eye on the inn had intercepted? And it’s a second-story window, with no good landing place underneath. I checked!”



Valjean shook his head, still calm as you please. “There was no one watching, have a little faith in my powers of observation. The shadows on this side of the house are very deep, the gabled roof provides excellent cover and the walls are rough enough to provide solid handholds. Nearly nobody looks up, people have their attention solidly on the ground.” He shrugged his ruddy shoulders and a deep breath lifted up Javert effortlessly.



“I climbed up, not down, and took the path over the roof and down the other side,” Valjean continued.



“You could have told me, we could have retrieved the money, during the day and with an escort of gendarmes, above board and secure. Why the dramatics, this makes no sense-”



Something flickered in Valjean’s eyes.



“Unless- “ an angry suspicion firmed to certainty. “you never intended to return, Valjean, you planned to take that money and run. You always run.”



“At least you aren’t accusing me of trying to fetch the money so I can bribe you,” murmured Valjean.



“You deceived me! You planned to take this hidden stash. You planned in advance!” Javert hissed, incensed.



Valjean raised one eyebrow as if Javert was the insane one between them. “I planned for contingencies years ago, to be precise: practically the second I calmed down enough not to shy away from the word Toulon, the mere thought of being thrown back to jail. Of course, I planned! I am not dumb! I buried all I would ever need if I had to break out again nearby. It’s the lack of support and disguise that damns most escape attempts, as you very well know. Can you blame me for thinking ahead?”



What a question! “Of course I can! I’m a policeman, you intended to break the law. You did break the law again!”



“I don’t see how. I went outside, I did dig up that bag but I returned of my own free will. And you did not chain me down!” Valejan stated as if that made it less of an offense.



Javert huffed and pressed his eyes together in agitation for a second. “That is not permission to go where you want to! This whole conversation is ridiculous.” The need to rub the bridge of his nose was nearly irresistible. “Did you look down on your treasure and suddenly decide, look at that, bad idea?!? Let’s go back to sleep?”



“That’s not so far off what happened. With added detail, of course. At first, I was prepared to follow my original plan. I was looking at some of the tools I buried - and which I didn’t need to use contrary to my expectations when I made my plans - because there were no irons to remove. No 

mantile

.” Valjean swallowed heavily. “I stopped to think- and well.”



Javert growled.



“Maybe, Javert, it should have been you who received the warning about what it means to use Guard’s Law. You really do not listen to gossip, don’t you?” There was a tired smile tugging at Valjean’s lips.



It added fuel to Javert’s ire. “And that is news to you? My lack of attention to wagging tongues? And how does that add anything important to the conversation just now? Start making sense for once in your life!”



“If I had run; You have done me no wrong, on the contrary, and I could not take repaying you with nothing but grief. If I’d run, it would have ruined your career.” Valjean grimaced. “It would have ruined 

you

.”



“You are thinking yourself of more consequence than you are. Or I, for the matter,” Javert countered.



“I’ve seen a handful of collarings under Guard’s Law in my nineteen years. I’ve seen one go wrong. The boy hanged himself, two weeks after agreeing to the collar. Granted, he might have taken his own life anyway, enough men can’t go on and take that escape. But his guard? He was drummed out in disgrace and drunk himself to death.”



Javert snorted.



“I see it in your eyes, you agree with the shunning. He couldn’t handle one measly convict when he was supposed to govern hundreds of Bagnards, it reflects badly on the Dominant. And throws shade at the superior who overestimated the guard and permitted the collaring. Such pairings are always watched closely. Which is one of the reasons Renault was so interested in the success of our… union.”



“Don’t you dare tell me I’m another Champmatheau for you!” Javert’s hands were trembling in anger. The thought that he had anything in common with that filthy creature, that he was another windmill on Valjean’s quixotic path, it could not be born. “You are truly unrepentant, always thinking you know best and you don’t regret your actions! Ever.” he snarled, and let go to better hover over the convict and glower down.



Valjean’s smile, in turn, was easy and soft. “Not all of them. No, I dearly hope I would not repeat all of my mistakes. But sometimes it needs a false start for me to do the right thing.” Valjean reached up and carefully let his fingertips follow the creases, valleys, and plains of Javert’s face. The touch was so light that it shouldn’t have registered. Those fingers didn’t try to rearrange or erase, they were reading a story. “I did not only do it for you. I looked at those tools and I was suddenly so tired. I don’t want to run anymore, always looking over my shoulder. I want to rest.”



Javert shifted his weight. Pieces were finally permitted to slot into place and show a fuller picture than the one he had clung to for so long. “A convict who genuinely seems to care for his guard, a man who is a criminal and a good man at the same time. Who are you?” he repeated a question he had asked days before.



“I’m just human, Javert.”



And maybe that was the only honest answer there was for it. Javert gazed down, for a long time, still as a stone gargoyle. Finally, he sat up straight, eyes never leaving Valjean’s, and rugged up his nightshirt over his own hips and ass, removing the last barrier that separated skin from skin.



Both men gasped at the contact, Javert hissing and tugging and flinging the garment away to land wherever it wanted. “Then let us see how human you are underneath your masks.”



Valjean deliberately pressed up, heat and hardness meeting the same, a challenge in his eyes.



Shifting his weight from one knee to the other, a few decisive movements and Javert was no longer straddling his sub’s hips but resting between his thighs. He had to bite his lips, the self-inflicted sting chasing away the urge to press down, to move indiscriminately.



“You should have run.” His big, paw-like, and reliable hands caught Valjean’s wrists again and dragged them up until they rested left and right beside white hair and ears that were a little bit too big to be considered handsome. The left missed a bit of cartilage at the top of the arc, like someone had bitten off a piece in a fight. It wasn’t normally noticeable, concealed by the ear’s curve back against the skull, and with hair worn longish and curly, as  Madeleine had preferred it. Nobody would have ever noticed without getting intimate.



But Javert knew, now, and would not forget. Another piece to complete the puzzle. He filed away that detail greedily, and slowly lowered himself until his face was beside Valjean’s, his lips nearly touching that imperfect ear. He could feel Valjean shift his own weight, could feel how solid and muscled the other man’s tighs were bracketing his own.



No matter how strong he was himself, Valjean would always be able to best him if, it came down to pure physicality.



“You are human too, Javert.”




Yes, yes he was.




Javert growled. “You should have run. You seemed to have planned it, maybe even good enough to succeed. With a fortune at your disposal, you would have had a good chance.”



“Would I?” murmured Valjean, his breath coming slow and relaxed in infuriating contrast to Javert’s fast ones.



“Yes! You put a lot of careful planning into it, for once.” Javert let his teeth run up the outer ear from lobe to arch, biting down only hard enough to create resistance, to be felt but not to bruise.



“Throw me off,” demanded Javert harshly.



Instead Valjean turned his head until his cheek rustled Javert’s sideburn until his mouth rested near Javert’s own ear. “Do you really want to know what I would have done next, if I hadn’t come back? You can correctly guess that I left a file, a hammer, a spanner alongside the money - no more mantile, no more shackles within half an hour, I’m good at breaking my bonds”



“Too good!” hissed Javert.



“I would have buried the tools and the irons along with my working man’s clothes and covered the hole with boulders and twigs. Nobody would have found them, not even you,” Valjean whispered, his chest rising and falling, his wrists rotating in Javert’s grasp.



“I would clean myself up, don my own, much better quality clothes from Montreuil, stuff my pockets with some of the money for easy access, keeping the rest in the bag as a reserve. No, I forgot, I wouldn’t have been able to wear the garments for the upper body immediately. Not at first.”



Something wet and warm tickled against his neck and Javert shuddered. Voice a little hoarse, chapped lips brushing Javert’s skin, Valjean was whispering directly into his ear, interspaced with clumsy kisses.



“There are walnut trees on that clearing, bare from winter, their old leaves covering the floor, wet and not rotten yet.”



“Yes? Throw me off, Valjean.” He pulled the sub’s arms up until he could transfer the hold to one hand. This, this was real and solid and true.



Valjean smiled, Javert could feel it against his neck. “Their leaves cover the fallen nuts, still in their leathery skin, they protect them from drying out and growing brittle. That skin, it stains horribly whatever it touches when crushed. It would have been perfect to dye my hair brown, maybe tan my skin darker too. Nobody would have recognized me afterward. Then, then I would have put on the rest of the clothes. There is a small mirror in a side pocket of the satchel and a comb, a razor blade, I would have made sure that everything was just so. I have more practice at cutting my hair than you do, and it would have looked nearly perfectly respectable. Not like a convict at all.”



Javet nosed the still blindingly white strands tickling his face, and used the free hand to card through before stroking, more firmly now, down to Valjean’s shoulders. “Not me, it would not have fooled me. Throw me off.” Wherever his fingers traveled, it encountered muscles under skin eagerly pressing back.



“I wouldn’t have left town immediately, no.”



“No?” Javert sank his teeth into the juncture of neck and shoulder, sucked the scent of sweat and lavender and soap deep into his lungs.



“It is what everyone in pursuit would have expected me to do, no? Why make it easier for them? I would have waited, not too long, but enough for the worst commotion to calm down, the hunters leaving town and spreading out. One day, maybe two; But you know about Cosette, I would not dare wait too long for departure. Then I would have visited one of the more affluent stables, during the busiest time of the day.”



Javert laughed, harsh and disjointed. “Of course, you would, bold as brass.”



Valjean casually shrugged his shoulders. “People expect to see certain things, for people to behave a certain way. They are blind when you don’t fit a mold.”



By this point, a gamin would have been able to break Javert’s hold, but there was no attempt and it made something crack in the stone Javert had always believed to be his heart. It was exhilarating, burning, it made him slowly grind against the body under him. “Throw me off, break my hold, and run, prisoner 24601, or...”



The position he had to twist himself into to reach both Valjean’s wrists and his neck both, it wasn’t comfortable, his back was screaming at him, his knees reminding him that he wasn’t a young man anymore.



Valjean softly, ignoring the hated numbers, continued to whisper his tale. “I would rent the fastest horse, knowing that you would have a head start, and I would have to catch up. But you can’t afford a horse of superior quality, I would have gained on you, reached Paris and the convent before you could, with time to spare.”



A deeper, reverberating growl escaped Javert’s throat, in reaction Valjean, the idiot, moaned and bucked up again.



“I’ve bought a safe house, years ago, years. An apartment, it’s not much, enough to stay low, to plan, to wait. A hole in the wall, nothing more but it would suffice. Oh.”



Yes, oh. It was a pity, that beautiful, heaving belly deserved a closer examination, but Javert’s prick was pulsing, the greedy organ, sensing that for once it would be a feast and not a famine. And Javert’s hand grabbed a leg instead, directing it to wrap around his waist. “Throw me off,” he whispered and reached further down.



But that leg tightened instead, stayed where he put it, kept the Dom near, and Valjean sighed. “It is easy to lie to people on the road and to make them not think about you and your hurry twice. A dying relative, carrying a message for an aristocrat, I could have laughed and told them that I am on the run from an angry husband I cuckolded, and they would have laughed as well and tried to buy me a round of cognac.” He began to restlessly rub his raised leg up and down Javert’s back.



“I would have taken Cosette, here in France she always will have the circumstances of her birth holding her back. But in England, nobody would know either of us.”



England. That was so far away, totally outside his jurisdiction. Javert stilled, his hold tightening again, his fingertips resting on the curve of a buttock. He abruptly sat up, and had to shove Valjean’s leg away, with some force to accomplish it because Valjean was having none of that.



His impossible sub was glancing back at him with half-closed eyes, his head softly turning from one side to the other and back. The curve of his mouth mocked Javert, asking him what he would do next. And he still continued to follow Javert’s earlier command, to spin his tale.



“I would have hired a stable boy to take the horse back to its stable, no reason to deprive the owner of the beast. You wouldn’t know that I have money left, you wouldn’t look for a man of means, 

non

?” the bastard continued.



In contrast to the room they shared at the guest quarters of the jail, this one was so small that two well-built adult men had trouble fitting between the side of the bed and wall without stubbing toes and scraping elbows. It was so narrow that Javert was able to easily reach out and open the small dresser that doubled as a nightstand, and search the inside of the drawer blindly. He pulled out the refill flask of oil for the lamp, and held it up so Valjean would see. It was a threat, a promise, a challenge, and a question all rolled into one.



Valjean did draw in a harsh breath, he did still but then he relaxed again, his thighs falling open in invitation. And there, flushed red with blood, thick and delicately curved against his belly, lay the visible proof that this wasn’t just some complicated and strange play for martyrdom - and Javert was pouncing on him like a starved man, resuming the position they were in before. With the exception of the handhold.



Javert needed his hands for other, more important things, while his lips nuzzled the black collar around his sub’s neck. His teeth ached, ready to bite down and keep the man under him pinned, the way wolves kept their mates still for mounting. He covered them with his very human lips, pressed a long, wet kiss into vulnerable skin instead.



His oily fingertips slowly pressed down, rubbing and massaging. Valjean’s skin grew more sweaty, his movements jerky. “Tell me, what would you have done next? Surely your… confession doesn’t end there.” Was that Javert’s voice? Hoarse, breathless, growly?



“Javert, you can’t expect me to - really? But…”



“Press down. Shhh… and tell me. Your story. That’s an order!” spat out the Dom. “Or, throw me off.”



“Oh my God, Javert!” Valjean sobbed against the inspector’s shoulder.



“Blaspheming? But my dear Saint! Come on, you said I wouldn’t guess that you have money. Go on, what would you have done next?”



“Enough money to hire a good phaeton with a pair of strong- what? Javert? Oh.” Tiny but strong muscles were fighting him.



Whenever Valjean would stop talking, Javert would stop moving his fingers until his sub picked up the tale again. Describing, breathlessly, how he had kept discreetly abreast about ships that crossed the canal regularly but not under any imperial flag. How he had scoped out the available inns months before, that he knew which innkeeper was regularly drunk, which kind of clientele frequented each inn on the way to Calais.



Every hitched breath and every restless whimper and hot kiss against Javert’s skin made the man’s heart soar triumphantly. The more Valjean talked, the more his sentence structure suffered, words being supplanted by moans and movement.



Finally, the older man was smoothly moving by the rhythm Javert dictated into his body, both of them beyond caring what went where as long as it went somewhere. The Dom stilled his movements, pulled himself up a bit and waited until Valjean was meeting his eyes with some semblance of awareness. Words about which bank in London would be best to deposit a fortune petered off.



“Last chance, throw me off. If you don’t, I will never let you go. Never.” Javert warned seriously.



Valjean stared back. “Made my choice when I returned.” And he reached up, with hands that had been, until now, resting with balled fists beside their bodies and pulled Javert down with irresistible force and claimed Javert with a kiss that was more passionate than skilled.



Their noses bumped together painfully, teeth clashed, and Valjean stammered an apology.



Kissing had always seemed to be a rather offputting chore, some expected part of a routine more than a delight. Who, in their right mind, would want to swap spit with another person? But as Javert took control, all he could think was that this was another way to devour.



And devour he did until they both were breathless and their mouths and tongues tingling and hurting from the urgency in their blood. If he didn’t do something else soon, he would spill before the close.



“Lift up.” he demanded and gripped a hip to indicate what he meant. “Pillow, more comfortable.”



“Used to uncomfortable,” came the protest, accompanied by suddenly hesitant arms clutching at Javert’s back. “Doesn’t matter.”



“You’ll know when I want you uncomfortable!” growled Javert and snatched the lumpy thing that had been lying on the bed when they entered the room and Valjean had chosen as his pillow for the night. There was no hesitation anymore, no more choked tales while they moved.



Even this was Valjean in a nutshell, more so speared on Javert’s sensitive prick than calloused fingers. Bold and virile, clutching at him and pushing him away and drawing him in in turns; and nevertheless so softly vulnerable it made Javert’s head spin. It didn’t take them long to finish, the build-up had been too tempting. Maybe the build up had lasted for years.



They rested afterward, cheek to cheek, both men gasping for breath and clutching at each other. For someone who had proclaimed not to know how to touch, Javert noted, Valjean was doing a lot of it now, his hands flowing over the Dom’s skin, like wanting to make sure that this was all real.



Sweat, oil, semen; All mingled on their skin and it would be considerate to fetch a wet rag and rub them both down lest the mess congeals and begins to itch. Javert had never been a considerate man.



He rolled them carefully to the side and ignored Valjean’s protests. He protested even more when Javert sat up, pulled a lamp near and then pushed the older man’s asscheeks apart.



“Javert!”



“Don’t be an idiot.” That sentence crossed his mind and lips a lot, didn’t it? When had it begun to not be an insult?



There was something deeply, primordially satisfying to see his spend decorate his sub’s opening and he couldn’t not touch him there and not only to check that he hadn’t damaged the other man. The scrutiny made Valjean squirm and Javert looked up.



“I am not some breakable, delicate sub, don’t worry so,” murmured Valjean, beet red. Still, he was smiling hesitantly and snuggled in when Javert arranged the blanket around them and pulled the other one from the bed to add to their comfort. There was no way he would be able to lug Valjean up onto the mattress and Valjean didn’t look like he had any intentions to move on his own for long enough to reach the comfort of the bed.



“You didn’t finish your story.” Javert arranged their limbs and then brushed his lips over Valjean’s forehead. “But that is only natural. There is no end, I would have followed you. And there is one important detail that you have forgotten.”



“Hm?”



“In your tale, you didn’t say anything about your collar. So many details, otherwise. You didn’t mention it, didn’t take it off.” Javert doused the lamp and threw one look at the piece of sky he could see through the window. The aubergine stripes now sported dark purple flecks but it would be some time until real daybreak.



“Mine,” he said, thoughtfully, surely. He thought Valjean hadn’t heard him, and was instead nodding off. Javert wasn’t far behind and settled down.



“Have you read Saint-Exupéry*?” Valjean murmured out of nowhere, proving that he was awake.



“You know that I don’t like to read for leisure. Unlike you.”



“Hm.” sighed Valjean and rubbed his cheek, a little rough from a day’s growth of beard, against Javert’s shoulder. “You become responsible, forever…” His eyelids fluttered and he curled up against his Dom’s side and exhaustion claimed him.



“You and your books.”



Javert pulled up the blanket and shoved and prodded his lover none too gently -well he couldn’t call him a bed partner- the piece of furniture in question stood empty a few feet away- until he could claim a little more space and follow him into sleep.



Tomorrow would without a doubt bring more trouble but for now, they would rest.


 

 TBC

*Yes, I am aware that The Little Prince was published over 120 years later. I don’t care, this is an AU. Let’s pretend the author lived earlier and used period-appropriate symbolism.


The January sun did not have the power to do more than provide light, and poorly at that. There was no warmth and not enough strength to reach into the deeper corners between the houses. The smell of brine and cold winds from the nearby shoreline added no comfort, and should have been enough to make sensible humans huddle in their dwellings and wait for spring. The necessities of life, like work, food, and gossip, negated the lure of warm rooms and a cozy fire. Toulon’s citizens were used to this unwelcoming winter weather like they were used to living jowl to cheek to a bagne.



Valjean fiddled with the hem of his threadbare shirt underneath the ill-fitting overcoat, poked his fingers absentmindedly into a hole, and widened it to a size that would permit a coin to be retrieved from inside the hem with the right pressure applied to the surrounding fabric. Not that there were coins hidden in this piece of clothing. He had no money at all on his person and from the cautious looks he received from the stall owners, it wasn’t something that would surprise any of the merchants on this market.



Every little movement sent spikes of dark red pain from his hands up his arms but Valjean did not mind because it provided color to the world of grey he had been living in for weeks now. In the middle of the marketplace, a young man lifted an equally young woman high up and twirled her around to the rising cheers of the watching crowd. Valjean simply observed, his face impassive.



So did the stall owner nearby but her attention switched back to the stranger near her vulnerable wares after she had saluted the lovers.



A bland smile, worn and slightly uncomfortable like a well-loved boot that was on the edge of slipping into disrepair, tugged at Valjean’s lips and he politely inclined his head at the stout woman who was manning the till. She hesitated, her sharp gaze judging him and not kindly at that.



Surely if Valjean had donned clothes fitting s more affluent person, exactly the sort he had unearthed from their hiding place in the woods last night, she would trust him more. That had been their intended purpose, the reason why those garments had been hidden months ago, to make him blend in without the need to buy such items while wearing the rags of a convict. Shop owners, especially shop owners in Toulon, tended to remember unusual customers. And being remembered was not something to be desired when you were Jean Valjean.



If he had a completely new outfit only his unhealthy pallor and the bandages peeking out from under his shirt cuffs down to his fingertips would make him memorable. But that hadn’t been permitted. It would be, according to his companion, too suspicious for him to have acquired clothes of quality overnight, without having been seen entering a shop. That they were observed wasn’t in question, even though only a few gendarmes had dared to greet them when they had visited the station house earlier this morning. New clothes out of nowhere would indeed make people remember little tales about hidden treasures. And they did not want that, did they now?



Someone jostled him, a boisterous merchant, more interested in the content of his satchel which he was examining, than where he was going. The flinch, already half-formed, smoothly transformed into a slight bow and a murmured apology. Valjean should have indeed paid more attention and stepped back to avoid the collision. It was early, yes, but the marketplace was already busy and free space to move was at a premium.



But occupying the out-of-the-way corners would mark him further as suspicious, just like the scars the prison had left on his skin in often rightful - and sometimes less than just - punishment. Only people who had something to hide or were up to no good needed the shadows and-



That did not apply to him any longer though? The need to touch the leather circling his throat was immense but Valjean resisted. He poked at the thought but ultimately shoved it away. Valjean shifted from one foot to the other and absentmindedly cataloged the twinges of healing muscles and tissues. Then he shrugged and let his attention wander instead, ignoring the discomfort as something familiar that could not be changed and had to be borne like hair growth and the need for sleep.



Unavoidably his eyes were searching for a tall figure of a man in uniform and a top hat. It was easy to keep track of Javert, his height alone made him stand out in a crowd. By rights, Valjean contemplated, he should blend in more. With the dark coat, the dark grey uniform trousers, and his long black hair, only lightened by the beginning of grey at the temples, Javert should just be another part of a world that was steeped in grey. Instead, his skin appeared a rich dark hue and contrasted with light eyes, the outlines crisp and every movement engraved into Valjean’s awareness like a deep scisselgrove into metal.



“Are you interested in my wares?” The vendor had packed up a glass pitcher her last customer had selected and paid for to be collected later. No well-heeled person was paying attention to her wares and she now thought it prudent to direct her full attention to the white-haired stranger.



Valjean would take bets and not lose that this fine madam had pinned him for 100 francs and was reaching for a club or a pistol hidden underneath her stall top. Even successful businesswomen would gleefully collect the reward for apprehending an escaped forcat.



With a polite bow and a more polite smile, he waved away her concerns. “Alas, Madame, as fine as your wares are I do not require them. I am waiting for someone.”



The woman sneered, not mollified by his lack of brogue. “I am sure you are.”



In contrast to Valjean, she hadn’t used the polite ‘

Vous

’.



“Glass and glasswares are of professional interest to me,” Valjean demured and then had to suppress another wince, the smile sliding from polite to regretful. “Or were,” he couldn’t help but add softly, then pressed his lips together firmly. 



“Is that so? Well, then, take a look. You won’t find better quality on all of Toulon, nay, all of Provence! I have some reasonably prized trinkets if you are in search of some small gifts for your grandchild or a sweetheart.” A grand, sweeping gesture encompassed the glittering and breakable things so proudly displayed. Still, her other hand was kept cautiously stuck out of sight under the desktop.



“Those are very pretty indeed. But I am not blessed with children and my companion isn’t the sort that would appreciate such a gift.” The thought of Javert’s stern face, when presented with something pretty and useless, was enough to lighten Valjean’s mood.



“Ah, so that’s how it is, eh? Never mind, deary, I have what you are looking for, you should have said instead of being so nervous! Skulking instead of approaching me, that can give a gal the wrong impression. Dear Lord, it is 1823, not the Middle Ages.” Her weathered hand rose to her beige fichu and she patted it and then gestured to his fine white cravat.



It had been one of the garments Javert had deemed not too suspicious to wear today, in addition to the sad fact that his old simple workman necktie had been sacrificed on the altar of justice yesterday, to serve as bindings for those bandits. And to appear in public with a naked neck, that would have been beyond the pale. Thankfully Javert hadn’t insisted on Valjean displaying the collar more openly, or attached the leash. Come to think of it, after a week of shouting, growling, lecturing, and loudly glaring, there had been a strange absence of commands this morning. And Valjean suspected that it had less to do with their intimate encounter and more to do with the heavy thoughts that kept plaguing the policeman.



A clatter and small noise of glass clinking drew his attention back to the stall. The woman had unearthed a sturdy tablet lined with a soft cloth, the lumpy content covered by another clean linen towel. A slight blush added some color to her face. “Reasonably priced, too, if you understand what I mean?”



No, he didn’t know what she was alluding to and the last thing he needed was Javert appearing at the worst possible moment and seeing Valjean in something that could be interpreted as a shady transaction. “I’m really just waiting for someone,” he had to wave her off fast.



“Maybe I can help you find the person you are waiting for? I’ve been here since daybreak and I know all the regulars. But, dear, if it is money you are worried about, we can come to an agreement.” She smiled at him pityingly. “And I would take your fine neckcloth in payment for one of the simpler…pieces. As long as it isn’t stolen?”



Valjean blanched. “No, it is honestly obtained, with money honestly earned, Madam.” 



“Is there a problem?” A deep voice intruded on their conversation.



Think about the devil and he will appear. 



The bag that was slung over Javert’s left shoulder looked out of place more than such an ordinary item should.Valjean stared. Had he ever seen the other man carrying something unrelated to his profession? His mind wandered. A broad palm was placed onto the small of Valjean’s back and it made him startle and flinch and he had to take a deep breath to center himself again.



“Ah, no, no problem at all,” dithered the woman, sizing up Javert. “We were haggling. Are you new to the force, I haven’t seen you in town before! If that’s the case, and we can always do with more gendarmes, then please let me welcome you to our fair city.” 



“No,” was all Javert glowered while stepping closer to Valjean. Much closer than was polite and the good madame began to chuckle about a joke only she seemed to understand.



“I see how it is, how delightful. I hope I haven’t spoiled the surprise. You can come back later, dear.” The last part she directed at Valjean.



Which only served to make Javert more suspicious and, fast as a hunting dog snapping at a fox, he pulled the covering off the hidden wares before she had time to hide it again.



“Oh.” Valjean stared, aghast.



There, lined up like soldiers for the battle, lay a row of glass phalluses.



Valjean recoiled and looked away, at anything but the smooth rods. He could feel his face flaming.



“I hope you do take care that these aren’t in sight of impressionable youths? I will have to talk with the market authorities if you are careless, mark my words.” Javert on the other hand didn’t seem to be ruffled at all.



“Of course not! What do you take me for? This is a respectable business, Inspector! Your,” she glared and covered the scandalous little collection while she decided on a word. “friend expressed an interest in special glassware that is all, and if you look around you’ll see that I took all necessary precautions.”



Which brought Javert’s attention fully down on his poor submissive’s head. 



“Not my fault if he feels the need.” She added, her expected sale going up in smoke souring her disposition and making her smile turn mean. Clearly, she hadn’t appreciated Javert’s threat of alerting the authorities either. The way she mustered the policeman from worn but immaculately clean top hat to shiny boots wasn’t complimentary. “After all, if there’s nothing left after all that stiffness is used up for other things…”



It took the two men a second to follow her insinuation and judging those flared nostrils and bristling whiskers, Javert might forget all thoughts about the reason for their excursion and arrest the stall owner on the spot.



“No, madam. This is a misunderstanding, really. There are absolutely no problems in that regard, none at all! None- uhm.” Valjean faltered in his babbling, stared at his hand and where it was resting against the front of a double-breasted coat, and then up into Javert’s grey eyes, which stared right back.



When had he shoved himself between the irate Javert and the woman and placed the flat of his hand against the man’s chest? If there was someone walking the Earth who knew how much Javert tended to overreact when he felt his dignity attacked, it was Valjean. But exerting any sort of authority over his actions might, maybe, on second thought - not have been the smartest action.



Javert huffed.



Valjean could feel his cheeks flush.



“Good for you deary, otherwise it would be a shame, a strapping Dom like him! And look at those nice strong hands. Mmm… .” The unfortunate merchant, proud of her witticism and not knowing about the storm that had been about to unload onto her head, laughed saucily and the neighbor stand owner and a few early market customers began to pay closer attention. Free entertainment couldn’t be ignored.



One of those gloved hands she had admired slowly reached out and very precisely rightened one of the offending glass objects so it was aligned perfectly with its brethren again, a deep, contemptuous sneer blooming on Javert’s face. The cloth was then pulled over until the tray was again demurely shrouded.



“No wonder the tray is still full, who would want these? Put those 

small

 obscenities away and only pull them out when sure about your customer’s needs -  before I call one of my colleagues and have you arrested for public obscenity.”



And with that he turned away, dismissing the woman with another warning glower. 



“I leave you on your own for a minute, Valjean, and you are searching for aids? Is this a reaction to last night? If yes, I don’t think I should take it as a compliment.”



“I did not ask her for those…things! She misunderstood my intentions.” Valjean hurried after his Dom, his face still beet red. Last night was something he tried to actively not think about but like the proverbial pink elephant, it refused to stay out of sight. The memories weren’t traumatic or uncomfortable, but- Valjean licked his lips. Confusing, pleasurable, intimate, frightening - those were all words that came to mind. Confusing and intimate stood out.



Behind the mismatched couple, the glass seller had regained her courage and was shouting something colorful after them that made the crowd roar and Valjean wince. 



“Maybe you should have arrested her-” Valjean began and tried to keep up with Javert’s long strides. To be caught in this embarrassment, Fortune wasn’t smiling at poor former convicts today. And Javert, like it was his wont, had drawn the worst conclusions, surely. The crowd parted for them as the sea before Moses.



“If I arrested everyone who tries to have a lewd joke at the Law’s expense new prisons would have to be built and rarely anyone would be left free.”



Valjean knew he should shut up but couldn’t help but be indignant. “Then how about her endangering her customers’ health? Have you seen those things?”



The sharp and unbelieving glare that earned him made him babble faster. “I am talking about the quality! Even without examining them close up, I could see that the faultlines in the glass and the molasses obviously weren’t treated properly. Too much strain at a wrong angle and they will shatter- considering where they are supposed to go - nobody wants glass splinters there, surely. It’s a travesty!”



Javert rounded a corner and entered a less populated part of Toulon, then stopped and turned to Valjean. The shops hadn’t opened yet and the people living above them were otherwise occupied. “And you are suddenly an expert on intimate aids? Don’t tell me your factories produced such rods on the sly?”



“No!” 



“How provincial of you.”



Was Javert laughing at him? It was hard to tell but the way the corners of the taller man’s mouth twitched betrayed something that wasn’t the usual anger or suspicion. Were they truly arguing about this? The ridiculousness suddenly caught up with Valjean and somewhere nearly forgotten mirth rose and made him chuckle. “Such a line of products wouldn’t be something that stayed hidden even for a week, nay, a day. The matrons of Montreuil would have saved you the effort and have had me thrown under a jail for leading the citizens astray.” 



No, Montreuil had been very staid and not a big enough harbor city to attract newfangled ideas easily. When Valjean had hidden there the old-fashioned and dour unimaginative populace had been a comfort, something predictable. Some of the older citizens hadn’t come to terms with the fact that submissives weren’t considered slaves anymore and had been more annoyed with his orientation than his obvious peasant roots when he had become Mayor.



For a moment he was back there, caught in a dangerous dance of pretense, with the thorn in his side that wouldn’t go away and couldn’t be appeased.



Javert had used Valjean’s preoccupation, had opened the bag he was carrying, and impatiently dragged something big out of the opening like it was a struggling criminal brought to the light of justice. 



“Here. Put this on before you catch a cold, be quick about it.” The item was then pressed into Valjean’s hand and he hesitantly unfolded the mass of green felt. It was a coat, by the wear on the seams and the unfashionable cut not new but the fabric was still thick, and the color even and not bleached too badly by sun and weather. It felt solid under Valjean’s stroking fingertips and would be nice and warm when worn.



“Thank you!” With clumsy hands and a lot of haste, Valjean shrugged out of his threadbare coat and into the green one. He stilled when big hands began to adjust the single cape and the collar. Suddenly Javert was so near, his lips nearly touching Valjean’s ear.



“Did you see any of the attackers or Molin?” was whispered.



Valjean shook his head. After the lengths they went to, it was unlikely that their adversaries would give up. He couldn’t say that he was sad to not have come face to face with one of his tormentors again but Valjean did not like to be left guessing and 



“Me neither. I hoped they would take the bait. Or they are smarter and more skilled than I thought, and we simply did not spot them. No matter, scum like that will wash up sooner than later, mark my words. Let us return to the inn, maybe there is news from Bonnard or the Commissaire.”



Javert did not wait for an answer but turned in direction of their lodgings. Valjean glanced down at the piece of discarded clothing in his hands and then hesitantly took a few steps in direction of the space where the edge of the market met the regular houses, where certain parts of human society dwelled and waited to snatch at leftovers and easy pickings. The sort of poor unfortunates Javert tended to scoff at and - Valjean sighed and held out the little bundle to a thin figure. It was eagerly taken out of his hands.



Javert, having stopped when Valjean hadn’t followed him and had observed silenty, predictably scowling in displeasure. “It would have taken up valuable space and wasn’t worth much, but really, Valjean?”



Valjean shrugged his shoulders and ducked his head. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw a pickpocket snatch an apple from a passing cart and then dart away.



A usual sight for sure. What was astonishing though was that Javert hadn’t seen it. Valjean bit his lips and eyed Javert thoughtfully. At least it seemed as if he wasn’t the only one out of sorts, hm?



He snuggled deeper into the wonderfully warm green coat and hurried to catch fully up to his Dom. This garment had been part of a plan but it had been obviously chosen with care and him in mind because of how well it fit Valjean. They had agreed beforehand that one or two purchases at a stall that sold used clothing would mask the sudden appearance of Valjean’s unearthed clothes and throw off any suspicion of watching spies. This way he could wear them on the journey to Paris without Javert having to pay for additional clothes.



Valjean wasn’t too sure why Javert had been so displeased with the clothes Renard had provided but the inspector had been adamant that they simply wouldn’t do.



The content of his recovered treasure had already been divided up and hidden in Javert’s luggage and the garment bag Valjean had been given in the Bagne. The empty treasure chest had been hidden in the rafters by Valjean, nobody would look for it there. 



A sharp gust of icy wind made both men stumble and duck their heads. 



“I should have bought a scarf as well,” he heard Javert grumble under his breath.




Oh

, thought Valjean.



The small spark of hope in Valjean’s heart dared to burn higher. Yes, they were still caught in their old dance but the music had changed and become, dare he think it, enjoyable.



“What are you grinning about? This is abominable weather, nothing to laugh at?” Javert asked.



“Nothing, just a thought. But we better hurry or we won’t get everything done and will miss the coach we planned to board for Paris tomorrow - again.”



And that would be a shame. Neither of them would be unhappy to leave Toulon behind as soon as possible. But first, they had to catch a criminal, probably deal with another dinner with Renault, who wanted a report in person about the newest developments according to the missive he had sent, a scolding from d’Yvry; another night in the small guest room, this time hopefully not on the hard floor but the comfy bed.



Valjean blushed, it was becoming a habit.



Indeed, the future looked a little less grey.








The End
