Title: Weight of a Man
Work ID: 45472471
Author: crustashuns
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Canon, Post-Seine, Javert Lives (Les Misérables), Hurt/Comfort, Self-Esteem Issues, Slow Burn, Sort Of, Permanent Injury, No Beta, Canon-Typical Violence
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 3/7

Summary:
Javert and Jean Valjean live together what will they do?
based on Russell Crowe & The Ordinary Fear of God’s ‘Weight of a Man’

Work text:

[Verse 1]This could be heavyNot as easy as it seemsQuite tough to carryA lot more inside that no one has seenBut you lying thereYou’re not one bit scaredTo shoulder a burden like me

Daylight streamed through the windows of the room, highlighting the small specks of dust meandering through the space. It was spring, and the birds were singing in the trees close to the building, forming a symphony with the sound of activity in the kitchen. Javert listened to Valjean humming and smiled softly to himself. His hands were neatly folded in his lap as he sat propped up against a pillow. It had been a few months since fate- and Jean Valjean- had seen fit to keep Javert alive, and it wasn’t always easy to accept that, but Javert was doing his best. Still, everything hurt. The better part of each day was spent in bed, as nothing in his body worked quite right yet. He wasn’t sure it ever would.
The doctor said he was lucky to be alive. A fall like that would rightly kill a man, and yet, here Javert was. Why?
He shook his head. Valjean always said he should pick up knitting or reading, since sitting and thinking all day does no one much good, especially one as pensive and hurt as Javert. He always turned his face away whenever Jean said that word, ‘hurt,’ like it would burn him to see the man’s face as he said it. Maybe it would, that stupid, concerned grimace he always wore. He was in no way ready for Valjean to understand the extent of how right he was.

Javert’s thoughts were interrupted when Valjean entered with a tray of food, placing it on the sheets next to Javert as he assumed his normal spot on the chair which sat, always, next to the bed. Javert took the tray and began picking at the food.

“Are you going to have some today?” Valjean asked after some time.

“I always do.”

Valjean frowned. “Never enough.”

There was a silence as the pair ate.

Valjean again broke it. “Shall we visit the gardens today?”

“Perhaps,” Javert paused. “But I suggest you find another companion if you wish to stay for long. I-“

“We will stay as long as you wish it. And there are benches should you need to rest.”

Javert thought for a moment, then agreed.

They finished the meal, and Javert readied as Valjean washed the dishes. His hands shook. Never anymore did they do what they were supposed to, and after a few tries at tying his cravat, he dropped his hands in defeat. He didn’t realize Valjean had been watching from the door, leaned quietly against the frame. He knelt before Javert and took tenderly in his hands the delicate fabric, tying it with a gentleness that nearly brought Javert to tears. A knot tightened in the pit of his stomach as he felt the soft tug against his neck. He could almost lean forward and-

He shook his head.

Jean Valjean could never desire him in that way. It was only because he was a saint that he could keep an animal such as Javert this close.

He let out a breath when Valjean finally stood and offered his hand. Javert obliged, letting himself be pulled up off the bed like an invalid. Which is what he was, now, Javert thought bitterly.

The gardens were not far, lord be praised, for the pair walked at a snails pace to arrive. Each step Javert took was laborious and unplanned, as if it was only just now that he was learning to walk. He glanced at Valjean every so often, reading his face for a hint of annoyance, or pity, anything, but still the only expression was his usual, ever so kind and patient. Embarrassment say heavily in the inspectors chest, as it did daily when Jean Valjean would force him out of bed and onto his feet. Never was he allowed to stay there, even on the cloudiest days when Javert wished only to sink so far down into the mattress that he would disappear. Whenever he tripped, Valjean would catch him, set him right, and continue arm-in-arm. It was too much. He was too kind.

When they reached their destination, Valjean eased the poor man down onto a stone bench which sat overlooking a pond. The gentle sounds of the day washed over him, and at once the effort to get here was worth it. Valjean sat beside him, fidgeting thoughtlessly with the edge of his coat in his usual fashion. If he noticed how much room was left on the bench to his right, he didn’t care. They chatted easily about nothing, commenting on the ducks or watching a father and son play on the shore. Still, a question itched, always on the edge of his tongue, and today, for a reason not fully understood by Javert himself, he was unable to restrain himself from blurting it out. He interrupted Jean Valjean’s musings with a small voice, barely heard.

“Why do you care for me like this?”

Valjean stopped. “What?”

“Why do you lower yourself like this? To take care of me? I’m- I don’t- it’s a kindness I don’t deserve…especially from one such as you.”

“Javert…”

“Answer me. Please.” He wrung his hands. “I do not wish for you to feel responsible for my condition, nor like you should be required to treat me the way you do.”

“No, that’s not it! It never was.” Valjean muttered something under his breath. He hesitated slightly as he turned to face Javert. “I stay with you because I want to. Nothing more or less, and certainly not for some moral obligation.”

Javert waited.

“I want you to know that I value our time together more than anything. And..if you’ll permit it..” he trailed off, but nonetheless Javert understood.

“You don’t know me.”

“I wish to.”

“No, you don’t. You don’t want to carry this burden. It’s not easy.”

Valjean took Javert’s hands in his own and stared him in the eyes.

“I won’t leave you, Javert. Even if you can never walk again, even if I have to hold you through your nightmares every night, I’ll stay. I’m not afraid.”

A sob caught in Javert’s throat, and he held it there, holding his breath. The warmth of Valjean’s hands steadied his breath, and he closed his eyes, savoring the feeling.

A beat passed.

“It’s getting late. We should return home.”

Javert nodded.

That night, he sat awake listening to Valjean’s quiet breathing. His peaceful figure was illuminated by the moonlight. He thought. How can this man be so unafraid of him? How can he not see? How can he hold Javert’s marred hands in his own and not feel the weight of the man’s crimes? Sleep came soon after, and Javert was again pulled below the surface and into the past.

[Chorus]Don’t close your eyesTurn your face to the skiesAnd breathe me as deep as you canYour strong heart won’t breakAre you ready to take?The weight of a man?

Memories are something that most people cherish. Javert did not have that luxury.

He was beaten. Bloody. The grime of the prison yard seasoned his open wounds like salt and pepper in the meat the guards sometimes threw to him. He stopped fighting back minutes ago, as there’s not much a ten year old can do against a pack of men. What was the reason this time? He couldn’t remember. Perhaps he had stolen a piece of food for his ailing mother. He felt the familiarity of the punches landing in his gut, in his face. He had been here before, it was all routine, until suddenly water was streaming into the courtyard, filling his lungs with the burning liquid. He screamed and flung his arms at the men who held him underneath, but he was unconscious before he could land a punch.

When he awoke, a kind warmth enveloped him, a firm embrace around his shoulders, holding him tight. When he opened his eyes he found Valjean looking back at him and buried his face in Valjean’s chest, listening to his voice as he whispered, “I’m here. Its okay.”

Javert let his breathing steady before finally sitting up.

“I’ll make breakfast,” Valjean said, moving to stand.

He reached forward and clung to his companion’s sleeve. “Would you stay?”

“Come now, I’m hungry. Why not join me in the kitchen?”

He agreed and so the pair made their way through the apartment. There was some not yet stale bread left on the counter, which they split for the meal. Valjean watched Javert, noticing his disheveled hair. Wordlessly, he fetched a hairbrush from the other room and began gently working at the snarls.

Javert froze, feeling Valjean’s hand pressed firmly against the side of his head. Something hot settled in his chest, and he held his breath. Once his hair was neat and untangled, Valjean gathered it all into a ponytail, his fingers lingering slightly at the back of Javert’s neck before returning to his seat. Javert’s cheeks burned as he finally let himself breathe.

“Much better.” Valjean nodded, smiling slightly to himself.

Javert said nothing, the touch still lingering.

“Any ideas for today?” Valjean asked as he stood, wiping away the crumbs from the table.

Javert shook his head. He looked out the window, noticing that the sky seemed slightly grey. “Might it rain?”

He looked up from the table, squinting at the same window. “Perhaps. I should fetch groceries before it does.”

“Before you do, would you assist me in starting a fire?” he paused. “The rain always makes it cold in here.”

Valjean stopped and smiled. “Of course.”

Javert settled into an armchair near the fireplace once they had gotten the fire to crackle. The sound was nice, and the heat warmed his cold extremities. Valjean crouched still near the brick base, poking at the wood that perhaps to him was out of place yet. There was a light silence that filled the room.

“What were you dreaming about?” Valjean asked finally. “If you wish to tell, of course.”

Javert was quiet, thinking. The memory played over in his head. He let it be silent for a while. “Why do you wish to know me?”

“I do not understand?”

“Nobody has ever wanted to know me in this way, and for good reason. I cannot imagine that you would want to see me.” He waited before continuing. “Valjean, there is much about my life that would heavy a man to hear.”

“I know this.”

“Then you are strong?”

“You have met me, yes?”

Javert sighed.

“You recall my living situation as a child? Indeed, I was born in a jail by my mother, who had been arrested for nothing more than a small infraction of which the context escapes me now. I had a name, given to me by her, but she died when I was but 11 years old, and nobody but her called me that, and so eventually I forgot. The dream this time was a memory of a time when, for whatever reason it was- i believe it was for stealing to help my mother, I was being beaten while the guards looked on. Ordinarily, the memory goes as such that I remember, but the freshness of that night in which you saved me must have crept through, for the dream ended in the band drowning me.”

“Javert..” Valjean grimaced, moving closer to touch his hand.

“It was a long time ago.” Javert waved the sympathy away. He didn’t mention the marred tissue that remained from that day.

Valjean moved closer still, sitting on the armrest of the chair. He reached for Javert’s face, tracing his jaw. Javert suppressed a gasp, leaning into the touch.

“Do you trust me?” Valjean asked, nearly whispering.

Javert gazed into Valjean’s compassionate eyes. He noticed a small tear and despaired at the fact that he had made him cry. “With what?”

“Your heart.”

Javert’s pulse skipped a beat and anticipation tightened in his chest and around his lungs. His voice crackled hoarsely with his reply. He waited a beat.

“Yes.”

[Verse 2]I’m so hard to handleMy life’s a suitcase that’s never been closedDon’t know how you stand meOh, how you love me God only knowsThere’s ghosts and there’s witchesThere’s black-eyes and stitchesThey come with meIt's part of the show

Some days were better than others. On certain days, Javert could walk and hold his silverware and tie his cravat with little difficulty. On those days, he permitted himself solitary travel elsewhere. It was nice to get out of the house without needing assistance.

This day was one of those days, and Javert found himself returning to a place he had often frequented in years past, a small tavern down the road from the apartment complex he had inhabited in those days. He knew not why this was the direction in which his feet carried him, but with almost no effort he was sitting sadly with a glass of something. He stared down at the table, listening to the familiar rustle of the room.

In a time long past, Javert would find himself here, alone, always, with his own thoughts. A memory or two would claw its way up, and Javert would lock in in a bottle, the only way he knew. It was easy, natural. He watched his father many a time when a money-hungry guard or a prisoner with connections high up would sneak a container of something cheap in. The emptiness behind those eyes was something that never left him. He wondered if he wore those same eyes, but thought better or looking in a mirror to check. He gritted his teeth, trying to grasp on to a specific moment, something he could blame for why he felt this way. Many times, he thought of telling Valjean about it. Revealing the fact that he could hear the Seine in his ear most days, beckoning. He imagined the conversation, how Valjean would want an insight into Javert’s life. This approach needed a why, Javert reckoned. And of that he had nothing. Just a feeling, an impression. A cough escaped him and he took another drink.

Down the way, a man glared at him, but Javert ignored him. A few minutes passed when finally, the man got up from his seat and found one next to Javert.

“Well well, if it isn’t Inspector Javert himself,” the man sang, the words ‘Inspector Javert’ hissed with emphasis. “Heard you took a little tumble.”

Javert looked ahead, still, not daring to meet the stranger’s eye. “Indeed. In fact, I am still recovering.”

The man smirked. “That’s unfortunate. Reminds me of someone else I know.” he spat.

Javert’s heart sank. This was a man with a grudge, no doubt. He closed his fist.

He didn’t know what happened after that. Perhaps the stranger swung first. Perhaps the man finished his statement before throwing a punch. In any case, Javert found himself at the door of Rue de l’Homme-Armé 7, bloodied and bruised. He knocked, and the door swung open urgently as Valjean uttered a string of curses, pulling Javert inside by his waist.

“Good god, man! What has happened?” He sat Javert down at the kitchen table.

Javert muttered something, not loud enough or pronounced enough to be heard. His head bobbed and he gasped when Valjean applied alcohol to the gash on his temple.

“Shh, don’t try to talk. Your jaw is all swollen,” he shuddered. “Christ, Javert, how- what?”

He cradled Javert’s face as he cleaned the wounds. Javert relished the touch, feeling the warmth of Valjean’s hands once again right there. He was acutely aware of the proximity they had to one another, and tried in vain to ignore the warm breath he could feel on his neck. A napkin ran over his cheek, his nose, his lips, and he closed his eyes, feeling each little touch like an explosion of heat on his features. It occurred to him, then, that he was exhausted, and without thinking, his forehead came to rest on that of the man who held him unconditionally and pieced him together once more.

Javert knew not what Valjean’s intentions were when he placed down the rag, but he felt his companion’s hands find their place nestled in his hair, and he exhaled shakily. His heart seized, and desperate warmth flourished in his chest and he pressed his lips to Valjean’s.

The world melted away in that moment. For a second, all that was wrong became right. Something Javert carried deep in himself released, and it was like he could breathe, maybe for the first time ever. He reached out and clung to Valjean, pulling clumps of his coat into his fists as if that was the only thing keeping him on the ground.

All too soon, it was over, and Valjean was looking up at him reverently. The pure adoration in his face was too much for Javert, and he broke his gaze away, fixing on anything but the man who had moments ago been holding him like there was nothing on Earth that mattered more.

He didn’t realize he had been crying, but then Valjean was touching him again, this time to wipe the tears away. The task was pointless, because they kept coming, but he continued. It was too much, too sweet, he was undeserving. And yet, he felt his face be guided to Valjean’s chest. The tenderness of it all made Javert’s heart ache, and he found that he was no longer able to restrain himself. Sobs wracked his body as he cried, and he felt Valjean’s gentle hands running through his hair and down his back, coaxing more sobs yet. A storm raged inside him, and Valjean took it with the strength of a mountain. Gradually, the tempest let up and Javert could take deeper breaths. His body still shook with the force of such sadness, but that soon faded as Javert let the release of sleep take him.