Title: irrécupérable
Work ID: 45682057
Author: dangerousinlove
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Canon, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Fainting, Angst, Emotional Hurt/Comfort, Panic Attacks, Memories, My First Work in This Fandom
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 2/2

Summary:
Javert tries to forget, but the nastier aspects of his life have a way of creeping back in.

Work text:

Javert stands at the kitchen sink, hand on the cool metal edge, breathing in the smell of the house all around him. Home, or at least a new home. He doesn’t really know how he ended up here—it’s still a mystery even now, six months later. It was Valjean’s idea, in the end, to leave Paris and all the sooty rainy misery of it behind. Javert was happy enough to do that. He didn’t and still doesn’t ever want to return to that place, not with all the pain and guilt and shame it still holds. Here he can make a start as fresh as the air he breathes every morning. He has a couple of animals and a little yard out back and he doesn’t ever have to hurt anyone if he doesn’t want to. That’s what Valjean said, when they first came here and were sitting together that night. It was nearly completely dark except for a weakly flickering candle in front of them. He’d forgotten to buy paraffin for the lamp. You won’t have to hurt anyone again, he said, and Javert just nodded. It’s not like he would have been able to say anything in response. No more policing, no more violence. They don’t even have to work if they don’t want to, though Javert does sell things at the market sometimes. Just so that he feels like he’s providing and doing something and not sponging off Valjean’s riches. The animals, too—they give him something to do, a better purpose than the one he had before. Nurturing, caring. He cleans the house too: sweeping and dusting and wiping down the washroom sink. It’s little more than a snuff-box sized dwelling, but Javert doesn’t really care. He’d gladly live in a shed if it meant he could be here, in the countryside away from the polluted hateful city. He doesn’t ever have to go back there, and that’s the only thing he cares about. For a long time he didn’t even know what he was feeling, until it suddenly hit him. Contentment. Peace. A complete lack of fear.

But the nastier aspects of his former life always have a way of creeping back in.

It happens right then, as he watches the water drain away. He was washing dishes from their earlier breakfast. Plugging the sink, using the soap, putting them aside. Water. It niggles at the back of his mind. Some kind of memory. What’s in there? What’s hiding in the shadows? Javert probes at it. Pulling aside the curtain for a peek at the darkness beyond—then, images surface. A pump on the street in an upper-class neighbourhood. A man in ragged clothes, taking the water in the dark of night. He begged, Javert remembers that. He said the water in his part of town was not clean and was making people sick, he just wanted water for his children, but Javert still jailed him anyway, and he felt good doing it because it was right, all those people had broken the law and he was seeing out their right and just punishment. He sat on his horse and stared down and handed out his judgement. For stealing water. For being thirsty and wanting to sate their most basic need of living.

Javert steps back from the sink, pressing the heels of his hands to his eyes. He can’t think about it now. It’s done, it’s over, he did what he did and now he needs to live with it. Live with it…it’s a shame nobody told him how to do that. He’s never learned how to be at peace with all the monstrous things he did. That’s only one thing. There’s much more, far worse things that he did because the state told him to. Because the law told him to. Because he couldn’t even think for himself whether someone deserved it or not. For some reason Valjean’s voice whispers, is that any excuse? and Javert feels his chest tighten with shame. No, it isn’t. You’re far worse than all those people ever were, Valjean whispers. You ruined lives and condemned people from your high place for wanting to…what? Provide? Live?

I thought it was right, Javert thinks desperately, but the thought disappears into the ether. Nothing, gone. It’s really because he knows Valjean’s disembodied voice is right. He is worse. Javert straightens up, looking around the tiny house. Why does he get to have this now? What’s he done to deserve this quiet pastoral life? He gets to live on someone else’s riches in the safety and privacy of the countryside—really he should have gone ahead and thrown himself into the Seine when he had the chance. Floated down the muddy river into wherever it goes. It’s where he belongs. He deserves to rot there for all time. Javert tries to breathe, and realises he can’t. It’s as if all the air has been drawn from the room. He’s going to suffocate unless he—yes, the window, he can open the window. Javert stumbles over to it, pulling away the latch with shaking fingers and swinging it open. It’s colder outside, the temperature not having warmed up from earlier this morning. Maybe they’re going into winter now. All the way down the road he can see the familiar shape of Valjean, coming home. What is his friend doing with him, for that matter? What does he see in Javert, other than all the terrible misdeeds he’s inflicted on others? Maybe Valjean will come to his senses. He’ll wake up inside himself and realise he can do better, that he can do more with his life than live out in the sticks with someone who hurt him and the people he loves. Javert can imagine how it would go. His roots to this place, violently torn away, shut out, abandoned. Javert knows he’d deserve it, but he doesn’t want that to happen! He loves this house and the countryside and Valjean, he doesn’t want to have that snatched away. Please believe me, I’m not the man I was, but would his friend listen? Probably not—Valjean would be firmly within his rights not to. And then what would Javert do? Go back to policing? He doesn’t know how to do anything else. He only knows how to judge, to punish, to hurt. The arbiter of a twisted kind of justice. Javert leans against the windowsill, black spots forming over his vision. Everything sounds muffled—the wind, his heartbeat, his strained breathing. Maybe he really is underwater, and he just can’t see it.

The black spots become a cloud, a shroud, a great wall of darkness, and the last thing Javert feels is his legs turning to water beneath him.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


When Valjean sees the open window of his house from halfway down the road, he instantly knows something is wrong. Well, maybe not wrong—amiss, potentially. Javert is home alone, and he never leaves any of the windows open. Even if they’re both there in broad daylight. He’s too worried that a burglar or a rogue will climb through and ransack the house of anything valuable, even though there truly is nothing valuable. What will they find, my love? Valjean had asked indulgently, watching as Javert checked all the windows once again. His friend couldn’t answer, but Valjean could see the anxiety in his eyes, so he let it be. Does it really matter? In any case, Valjean can see the window plainly hanging open, and it sets him to uneasiness. He picks up the pace, jogging the rest of the way to the house. He’d left Javert alone for an hour while he went to the market for some cheese and paraffin. It’s a nice place, looking at the house as he goes closer to it. It’s smaller than a shoebox, but it’s warm and not draughty and adequately far away from the rest of town. Quiet. Peaceful. A good place to be, separate from the pain and misery and suffering of Paris. Valjean can’t really see it from here, but he knows the layout of the property like a map in his mind. The house up against the road, its porch abutted by a narrow strip of grass, then the garden and animal pens at the back. Something for Javert to do. Tend to his vegetables and livestock. He doesn’t do much with them—except take the produce to the market some days—but it fills his hours and any time not spent wallowing in grief and guilt is a good thing, in Valjean’s opinion. Valjean comes up the steps, opening the door. They don’t even lock up. What is there to steal? Their simple clothes, the paraffin in the cupboards or the animals out back? “Javert?” he calls, kicking the door closed behind him. “Javert, are you alright?”

No answer. He puts his bag on the kitchen table, and that’s when he sees it. His friend on the floor under the open window, curled up there as if simply sleeping—but it can’t be, he wouldn’t just do that. “Javert,” Valjean gasps, going around the table to him. He kneels down, cradling Javert’s head in his hand, pressing a thumb to his neck. He has a pulse and he’s breathing, so what happened? Did he faint? Valjean gently pats Javert’s cheek, and he begins to stir. His eyes flutter open, blue and watery as they always are. His limbs move, slightly jerky as if he can’t remember how to use them. “V…Valjean?”

“Yes,” Valjean says softly. “I’m here. You alright?”

“I…” Javert’s mouth moves silently for a few moments as he struggles to form words. “I don’t…what’s just happened?”

“I don’t know. I just came home and saw you on the floor. Unconscious.”

Javert looks around himself, as if finally taking in his surroundings. “I…something happened,” he says as Valjean helps him to sit. “I remember…the water. Paris, and then…I couldn’t breathe. I needed air, I…”

Water. Paris. Some kind of flashback, maybe. Lord knows there are enough of those tucked away in Javert’s mind for a lifetime of nightmares. A library of bad memories, going on forever. “So why didn’t you go outside?” Valjean asks, gently cupping his friend’s cheek. “If you needed air?”

It’s quite possible the gentlest rebuke Valjean could have come up with, and it’s not even really a rebuke at all, but Javert’s bottom lip still wobbles. “I didn’t think of that,” he mumbles, looking down in shame. “I’m sorry.”

“Don’t be sorry. You haven’t done anything wrong. Come here, let me see.” Valjean wonders if Javert hit the floor without catching himself, and it seems that he did—there’s a darkening bruise under his hair. Javert hisses in pain as Valjean probes at it. “I see it. It’s starting to bruise.”

“Don’t touch it. It hurts.”

“I won’t. I just wanted to see.” Valjean pulls away, and Javert looks up at him. “Anyway, I got the cheese and paraffin we wanted. Let me make you something to eat, hm? You think you can stand up?” Javert can get to his feet with help, though he sways a bit. After making sure he’s safe there, Valjean returns to his bag left on the table, unwrapping the cheese block from its paper. Javert would normally be interested in that, but he says nothing. Maybe his mind is a bit scrambled from his earlier fainting spell. Valjean slices up the bread and cheese in silence. The only noise that can be heard is the crackling of the paper. He can feel his friend’s eyes boring into his back, so he turns around. Javert stands just a few feet away, wringing his hands, worry clear on his face. He used to look like that a lot, when they first came here. Wandering around in a permanent state of anxiety and fear. His eyes were underscored by purple and his hands shook incessantly. His heart raced constantly, enough that Valjean could feel it when they embraced. It did get better after a while. The purple shadows disappeared. The weather became warmer and Javert got his animals and he felt increasingly secure, day by day.

Javert’s obviously not feeling that way now, though. Valjean can see the anxiety brewing beneath the surface. When did he begin looking at Javert with sympathy instead of contempt? How many months ago? Valjean can’t tell. For some time at the beginning there was still anger and resentment and that deep kind of injustice, that feeling of looking at Javert and knowing he was an enthusiastic instrument of a state that hated him intimately—but Valjean doesn’t feel like that anymore. That’s not Javert these days. He’s wearing the simple clothes of a farmer, cut his hair, shaved his face. Renounced his earlier career, vowed to never return to his life of policing. Even without that Valjean can see the pain and guilt in his eyes. It is genuine. It has always been genuine since they came here. Goading him or shaming him would probably just make Javert cry, and where’s the honour in that? If Valjean loves him, why would he do such a thing? “Why are you standing there looking so sad, hm?” Valjean asks, his knife stilling. “Something’s worrying you. What is it?”

Javert opens his mouth. For a moment it seems as if the curtain is peeling back and he might actually be honest, but then it falls into place once more. “Nothing,” he says quietly. “It doesn’t matter.”

“It matters to me,” Valjean says gently. “You know that. It does.”

Javert shakes his head. “It shouldn’t.” He turns around and walks out then, over the few steps past the fireplace and out the back door. Valjean watches him go, plunking himself down on the bench outside. It’s not really a bench, just a couple of old crates that Javert nailed together, but they work well enough as a seat. Valjean finishes up with the bread and cheese. He obviously can’t hear anything from where he is, but he can see Javert roughly wiping at his eyes and knows that his friend is crying. It could be the memories again. Whatever it was that made him faint—did he say water?—coming back to haunt him again. Some memory of how he acted, and the knowledge that he could have done differently. Of course, it might not be that at all. Maybe he’s just feeling frightened and vulnerable again. Knowing he lost control and worrying what that weakness might invite. Belittlement, disdain. Isn’t that all he knows? It’s how he lived his life before, wasn’t it? A simple deal. A tit-for-tat. The people break the law, and the police crack the metaphorical whip. Easy enough to remember, harder to forget. How many times has Valjean promised him it wouldn’t be that way anymore? That Javert would not have to know pain or anger or violence here? Quite a few times, yet this most of all has had the hardest time sticking.

Valjean puts everything on a plate, going outside with it. It’s warm enough to be out there. The closer he gets the more clearly he can hear everything. Javert sniffling, swallowing thickly, letting out the occasional sob. “So something is bothering you,” Valjean says, with just the right edge of teasing and kindness at once. A white flag. It’s alright, you can be honest with me. Anything else and Javert would instantly retreat inside his walls. He would be suffering inside himself, but he wouldn’t be vulnerable. “What’s the matter, my love?”

Javert doesn’t turn around. “You don’t want to know.”

“I do. I’ve said that before.” Valjean takes a seat beside him, pushing the plate into his hands. All that bread and cheese will be gone by the time they go back inside, which is why Valjean had some already. “Was it…memories? Of before?” His friend nods. “What was it?”

“You will think I am heartless,” Javert whispers, clutching the edge of the plate so hard his knuckles turn white. “Irredeemable.”

Valjean strokes his friend’s hair. “Tell me anyway. Javert, there is nothing you can say to me now that’s worse than what I already know. Please, tell me. I promise, nothing will change.”

So Javert finally tells the whole sordid story. The man in rags stealing the water, his pleading, Javert’s unwavering commitment to the law. “He just wanted to provide,” Javert mumbles, “and I jailed him for it and didn’t even think twice. Of course he wanted water that…wouldn’t make his family sick.”

“You can’t do anything about it now.”

“No. But I wonder where all of them are now. The people I punished.”

“Somewhere you can’t do anything for. Yes?” Javert nods, though he looks very unconvinced. “It’s done, Javert. It’s in the past. You can only promise to…not do it again.”

Javert takes one of the breads to hand, chewing it mournfully. How is that possible? Yet in that action, his sadness is clear. “I suppose not.”

“Of course. That’s how it is now.” Valjean shifts along, drawing Javert into a one-armed embrace. “Just tell me next time,” he adds, pressing a kiss to his friend’s hair. “Before you get so worked up.”

Javert doesn’t respond to that for a long time. “You are too kind to me,” he says brokenly, looking far older than his actual age. His face, mournful-looking at the best of times, seems downright crushed. Valjean watches the tears wobble on his eyelashes before they drip down his cheeks. “I don’t deserve you. I don’t deserve you loving me.”

“But I think you do. I already decided that.” Valjean kisses Javert properly, and with a sigh, his friend leans into it too. “Eat. You need it.”

“You’re going to make me fat,” Javert mutters, though he doesn’t sound too unhappy about it. He chews through the rest of the bread, putting the plate aside once he’s done. “The animals,” he says after a silence. “They’ll need feeding.”

“Well, alright. Do you want help?”

“If you’re willing,” Javert says, standing and stretching. He and Valjean take the animals out to pasture, all by themselves on the quiet country roads. They can talk and kiss and embrace freely out here, if they so choose. There’s nobody around to see. Valjean lags a little behind Javert, watching him walk ahead in silence. What’s going on in that head of his? Nothing that I’d like to be a part of, Javert might say self-deprecatingly, if asked. “Javert,” Valjean says, making him slow down so they can walk abreast. “You know I love you.”

“‘And I’ll keep saying it’,” Javert responds, completing the usual sentence. “And you also know I already know that.”

“Oh, of course. But I like telling you anyway.” Valjean closes the short distance between them, kissing Javert on his slightly-prickly stubble. “I mean it. I love you.”

Javert melts, as he always does. It makes him look better; the lines in his face soften and his eyes crinkle and for a moment all the pain is completely gone. He should look like this all the time. Valjean hopes that one day in the future, he does. “I love you too.”

abandoned sopping wet kitty in a cardboard box on the side of the highway vibes <3 (and the pet-less person who picks him up and takes him home <3) hope you guys like! I liked writing this fic <3