Title: I Shall List The Ways
Work ID: 45989422
Author: Bam_b00zle
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert is longing, uhhhhngmmg them, Pining, is it mutual? yes, mutual pining but we only see one side of it, they kiss, Post-Seine, Alternate Universe - Everyone Lives/Nobody Dies, they are happy now, It's alot of longing
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert believes that the only way to save Jean Valjean from his sin is to remove himself. He is convinced otherwise

Work text:


Javert knew he was imperfect as one could be. The Seine had washed away the feared and irreproachable Inspector Javert, leaving only the man behind. A man who was barely that. Javert was not only imperfect; he was reprehensible. A man who had condemned many in his life, ready to condemn more were it not for the kindness of one other. It was a wonder that Valjean had not tossed him back into the gutter where he originated. He was glad of Valjean’s acceptance of him, despite him knowing that the saintly man was most likely only pitying him. He despised pity above all else, but to be in Valjean’s presence was more valuable than his disdain for being the recipient of such sentiments. That was another aspect of the man the Seine had transformed. No longer had he the deep hatred of Jean Valjean, how could he possibly, after the man had demonstrated his infallible goodness; the goodness he had not thought possible? No, that loathing had been replaced with a flitting feeling of longing. 



It made him want to retch. It was detestable, the feeling of want he had when Valjean would show him the barest of kindnesses. It was not moral. It was indecent. The saint would agree; he was a man of God after all. thoughts of such wretched affection were no use.



It was a plague, this.. thing inside his chest. It spread like an illness, growing ever worse when he attempted to deny it. It would not give him peace; tormenting him whenever he and Valjean would take to the divan and converse. He could not escape that traitorous fantasy: to freely give affection to the man who knew him as no other could. It taunted him, filling his mind with what-ifs and images when they were to garden, or walk in the park, or read, or- it was inexcusable. He could barely function with such an affliction, what with him flushing like a young grisette when such things would enter his head. It was surely a disrespect to Valjean too, was it not? No man would take kindly to such attentions, especially not from a dog such as himself. There was only one conclusion that benefited both men (he could admit to himself that this was a lie, his solution would only torment him further, but Valjean at least would benefit), which was to out himself as the wretched creature he was and darken Valjean’s hearth no more.



It was with such an idea in his head, that Javert had then set out to do just that. He had to deliver justice against himself once more in extricating himself from the saint’s rooms. He would confess how the saint held his heart in his hands, and he would leave the household so that Valjean could seek better companionship. He projected a grim countenance with the thought, but his discomfort did not matter. It was then, the rejection of Valjean’s pity and his kindness clear in his mind- not so much in his heart- that he sat the ex-convict down in their- 

his 

lounge to be out with it.



If he were to reflect in that moment, which he did not wish to do in case he became cowardly and dismissed his own thoughts once more, he would recognise the discomfort on Valjean's face. One could find unhappy amusement in the way he caused hurt even when he was attempting to end such indignity, but he could not bring himself to think about it, not with the challenge of removing himself from Jean Valjean.



“Valjean. It has come to my attention that I have done you a disservice-” He was putting it off, he knew, but he could not continue before he was swiftly interrupted with a protest.



“You cannot have done anything. I hold you accountable for nothing and if there is anything I am not aware of, I forgive you.” 



“... Even still. I cannot forgive myself, and therefore I shall hold myself accountable. As I have said: I have done you a disservice.” he paused. The words caught in his throat, as if his body itself were protesting against the action. He would not back down. “I have found myself with an attraction to you, to speak it plainly. It is immoral, and I would not entertain keeping up such a farce of friendship as I disgrace you so.” 



He had expected an immediate rejection, perhaps see the fond exasperation in his companion’s eyes turn to disgust, but Valjean stayed silent. It was as if he was making a bad imitation of a mime, not responding yet opening and closing his mouth like a beached fish. If Valjean did not have the heart to turn Javert away (God knows the man was too kind for his own good), he would turn himself out. He stood, the movement of his chair scraping the floor overbearing in its volume. He took a bow, it would only do to be respectful after he confessed his sins to Valjean, and strode to the door. The movements took little thought; he had no clue where he would go, living off of Valjean as he was, but he did not have the time to think of future working arrangements before feeling the distressed grip of fingers against his wrist. It would have been pitiful had he not known the owner of said fingers.



“My friend, stay. We can discuss this.”



“You should not call me friend. I do not deserve it. I would not have you be uncomfortable in your own home due to my presence.” 



He could not attempt to take his wrist from Valjean's grip, as much as he knew he should have. He would endure the contact and the feelings that came with it, if Valjean wished it of him.



“Sit at the settee, please.” The voice carried an edge of desperation, and Javert could not bear to cause his companion such feelings despite knowing what was needed. So he sat. 



“Javert, I do not wish to turn you out.”



“That does not mean that it is not just.”



“Javert,” He sighed, “I do not think it a sin.” Before Javert could interrupt, Valjean continued. “I reciprocate, my friend.” 



Then it was Javert who was a fish out of water, air feeling foreign when such information was presented to him. He could not understand it; he did not deserve Jean Valjean’s friendship, company, or charity, and yet the man chose to give still? It was ludicrous.



“You should not.”



“I think that is my decision to make.”



“Even so, you should not. I cannot deserve it.” How could such a man, a good and respectable one at that, return these affections that plague him. Valjean was not misguided- though his affections may have been- and he himself knew not of God’s love, so he could not ascertain whether it was a sin or not. Surely, He still should not hold Javert in such regard? He had done such wrongs to him; he was unworthy of any regard the man should hold him in. 



“Well, there is little that can resolve it now,” He said it as though Javert leaving was not an option anymore, and perhaps he was right. Javert could not leave. 



“There is nothing to love about me”



“Would you want me to count the ways I love thee?” 



“I do not believe my heart could bear it.” It was ridiculous. A man such as he could not love him. 



“I would do it.” Javert could tell he meant it. There is no doubt that Valjean would indeed ‘count the ways’, but Javert did not know if he could grow to understand it. Could he? He could barely even accept such a gift, he could barely touch it for fear of shattering it and receiving Valjean’s well-deserved disgust. He did not know if he could comprehend such a gift; it was inexplicable.  



He did not have much of a chance to ponder it, however. He was pulled from his thoughts with an unsure tug of his arm, asking for permission to pull him closer. He allowed it, the two men slotting together awkwardly in a way where Javert needed to stoop to reach Valjean’s face, but he would not have adjusted their position for anything. Not when their lips met, not when he felt such peace, such a quieting of his thoughts. He could not want for anything more; he did not need to comprehend this shining gift presented to him. He need only accept it.
