Title: a thousand shades of grey
Work ID: 46025305
Author: Bam_b00zle
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean, (preslash)
Additional Tags: I have Anthony Perkins Javert in mind for this, but its open for u to decide what silly guy you want, Suicide Attempt, though he's stopped, breakdown - Freeform, man cries for the first time ever, he's like a sopping wet dog, No Beta, I just want to post it shush
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert realizes his errors, and he cries.

Work text:

It was not ever in his life that Inspector Javert had involved emotion in his work. Emotion was weakness; to invite such weakness would be remiss in his duty, and he would never do such a thing. That was, until the barricades.

Inspector Javert had been faring well. He, despite being trussed up and waiting for slaughter, had been at peace. He was calm about his end, as it had been his duty. That damned convict had once again complicated things however. Throughout his life, Javert could say that only one adversary had complicated his work repeatedly; that was Jean Valjean, 24601, whatever damned alias he was going by. The convict-saint- for that was what he surely was now- had always claimed fine feelings and scruples to be integrated into his crime, and he, doing his duty, had ignored these. It was not as though he had reason to believe these, what he thought were, excuses. And thus, he had consistently dogged the saint’s steps. It was not until the convict complicated things one final time that he’d have experience in his damned emotions clashing with his duty. That wretched- no, not wretched, that was surely something to describe Javert himself- man had set him free. The man had set him free and went off to save another life, complicating matters and ripping his stars from their constellations.

Of course it would be Jean Valjean to muddle the easy black and white of duty into a thousand shades of grey. Of course the man had to give him clarity; prove that his entire life’s work was wrongful.

It was then, on the Pont au Change, that he had felt these dreaded emotions come to a head. The sky was black, devoid of the guidance he had once held infallible, and then there was simply him and his fall into the gutter, where he had never truly escaped. Such ideas were so overwhelming, for the man had not allowed emotion to touch him in years of his duty, so utterly and incomprehensibly strong that he could not help but to stumble. He grasped onto the parapet as if it was a lifeline- perhaps it was- and he sobbed. Inspector Javert, for the first time in his life, was stripped of his title, the man exposed to the watching eyes of the Seine. It was there, in the darkness, that he could find release. Release from such complications; his breath hitched on a sob. He was reminded once more of the many men and women who came to him, at his feet, sobbing and grovelling for mercy. Was that not what he was? Was he not sobbing and grovelling for mercy? No. That was not quite right. Javert did not want mercy; that would be too good for a wretch as him- perhaps he was growing hysterical- too good. He was sobbing and grovelling for punishment. He would be punished, surely.

He hauled himself onto the parapet, unsteady as he was on his feet from the emotions that made his head spin and his knees weak, only to hear thunderous steps approach. It was really quite humorous that his punishment had been disallowed once more, though surely the grip tugging him down from the parapet was not the same as the mercy he had denied in Montreuil.

Though he caught sight of the man, blurred by those cursed tears as his vision was, and it was undoubtedly that damned saint. How fitting it would be for Valjean to finally see him at his most pitiful. How fitting would it be for Valjean to try and give him his accursed mercy once more. He attempted to wrest himself from the convict-saint’s grip, trembling with the enormity of his realisation as he was, but he was reminded of the strength that had set apart 24601 from the other brutes. This man was not a brute however. This man was dressed in respectable cloth- he must have changed before finding him this way- and had not the countenance of some anonymous convict known only for this strength. No, this man was a father, the man was a saint. The realisation made him only tremble more.

It was there, cradled half gently in the convict saint’s arms, that Javert sobbed. He shook and cried silently with the enormity of his lapse and he weeped further.