Title: A man such as you
Work ID: 46023982
Author: Nabrah87
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Javert Lives (Les Misérables), Philip Quast is Javert, Minor Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Summary:
Javert accompanies Valjean to his daughter's wedding.

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert was usually a late sleeper and prefered the noontime to early mornings.

Today his consciousness returned with the first rays of dawn.

He didn't open his eyes right away and groaned inaudible, reminding himself that he was still a man who followed his purpose.

Thus slowly and almost silently Javert got out of bed and walked on bare feet out of the room;

leaving the older man fast asleep in their bed.

It was a feat to be up before Valjean stirred, because he was either already awake or come awake the moment Javert got out of bed.

Yet, Javert had made it across the hallway and to the kitchen without Valjean waking and softly closed the door,

before he busied himself preparing breakfast for the man whose daughter was going to get married today.

Javert wasn't an overly empathetic person, but even he had caught on to the desperation this event was stirring in Valjean's soul.

The least he could do was wake him with a partially finished breakfast, since he wasn't even entertaining the idea,

that he would be finished before Valjean would wake and, finding his side of the bed empty, seek him out.

Thus it came at quite a suprise to him, that he had managed to set the table, cut the bread and apples and the eggs and tea were almost finished boiling,

when he heard footsteps, before the door to the kitchen swung open on silent hinges.

"What are you doing?", Valjean asked, still more asleep than awake.

"I am making breakfast.", Javert stated the obvious, while he fished the hard-boiled eggs out of the water and placed them carefully into a basket.

"Why are you up so early?", Valjean followed his line of questioning, causing Javert to sigh and after placing the egg-basket on the table, walk over to him.

"Because I am making you breakfast.", he repeated himself and took the older man's hands to keep him from rubbing his sleepy eyes.

"Because I wanted to suprise you.", Javert amended after a moment and bent his head reverently over Valjean's hands, before he kissed his knuckles.

Valjean stiffened for a moment and his hands twiched in the other man's grip.

"Do you know what you have done?", he asked him incredulously, causing Javert to sraighten and return his gaze fiercly, but without another word.

"A kiss on the hand means devotion.", Valjean informed him and drew a breath to say something along the lines of You are clearly not devoted to anyone other than the Lord,

but was cut off, when Javert abruptly let go of his hands, placed his palmes against both sides of his face and kissed him full on the lips.

Valjean's world shifted so suddenly, that he had to close his fingers around Javert's wrist to keep from falling.

It was his first time beeing kissed like this and it wasn't refined, their noses bumped and breath was hard to come by,

until Javert made a noise deep in his throat and tilted Valjean's head up and his own to the side, before deepening the kiss.

Any clear thought was replaced by the wonder of the taller man's soft lips against his own.

"I love you.", he breathed, when their lips parted.

Javert wouldn't have heard him at all, had he not stood as close to him as he was, and took an abrupt step back before making a dismissive sound.

Valjean's dark gaze meet his through light lashes and he asked: "Do you?"

Javert huffed, shook his head at the smaller man and took one more step back.

"You are clearly still asleep.", he remarked dryly and pointed to a chair. "Sit down before you fall."

Valjean still starred at him, but did as the younger man bid and took a seat.

Javert poured the tea and subsequently set the kettle on the table, next to the basket of bread.

After he had taken a seat as well, he folded his hands on the table as if in prayer.

"Why would you feel the need to ask me a question such as this?", he inquiered.

Valjean seemed taken aback, but held the other man's stormy gaze.

"Because I would like an answer."

Javert sighed heavily and disentangled one of his hands to gesture at the table spread between them.

"I made you breakfast."

The darker haired man paused and folding his hands back together, put his chin on top.

"I share your bed and your life."

His voice took on a deeper timbre as he repeated:

"Why would you feel the need to ask me a question such as this?"

Valjean didn't answer immediately and silence fell in the kitchen.

"Because I want to hear you say those words to me."

Javert's lips twisted in a loopsided, almost sardonic, smile and he shook his head once more, before he disentangled his hands for good.

"They are just words, Valjean."

He took the bread-basket and held it out to the man opposite him.

Valjean almost closed his eyes, when the fragrance engulfed his senses, but opened them at once, when Javert continued.

"Actions are what matters."

Javert's voice was soft again but decisive and Valjean took a piece of bread from the basket without argument.

"You should have known the moment I walked away from the edge of the bridge.", Javert chided.

"I did. I do.", Valjean confessed, taking a bite of the soft bread and a sip of tea

Javert's eyes widened again, almost imperceptibly, but he didn't falter in the task of pealing his egg.

"I figured as much, or you wouldn't have bothered to talk me off the ledge."

Valjean's laugh startled them both.

"Javert. You are impossible."

The taller man raised an eyebrow at him and answered dryly:

"Try to keep that smile for the remainder of the day."

A kiss on the hand shows devotion and respect. A kiss on the lips is an expression of romantic and/or sexual desire.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The day had progressed to mid-morning, when Valjean entered the house in which Cosette was to be married;

Javert a few paces behind him.

He looked around, past the altar and up to the stained-glass windows, and despite Javert's heat at his back,

he felt a vast sadness encompass his soul.

But then the door to their left flew open and his wirlwind Cosette came running.

Valjean caught her easily and cupped her precious face in his hands.

"May happiness be with you, always, my child.", he said fervently and placed his lips against her forehead.

"And with you, Papa.", she answered and stepped back from his embrace.

He felt, but not heard the timbre of Javert's voice, when he spoke to Cosette

and found himself whisked away by his daughter's hand.

When they disappeared through the door, Valjean caught a last glance of Javert, standing sentinel at the church's entrance.

*

Valjean didn't hear the music, that bid them to enter, and he didn't see the people they passed walking down the aisle.

He couldn't feel much of himself, when he let go of Cosette's hand with a forlorn feeling;

and locked eyes with her soon-to-be husband, Marius Pontmercy.

Javert's words from this morning came back to him then and he took the young man by the arms

and placed a kiss on both of his cheeks.

"Take care of her.", he said loud enough for both of them to hear and then looked up, whispering softly:

"Have I done right by her? Have I done my best by your daughter, Fantine?"

Of course he didn't expect an answer and taking their daughter's hand one last time,

he bowed before her and then took his leave.

Valjean walked back down the aisle, bypassing the chair in front which was left empty for the father of the bride;

and took a chair in the last row.

He wanted to feel happy for these children, but there was only emptiness in his soul and the remainder of his life.

He couldn't seem to hear the priests words and a single tear ran from his unseeing eyes.

"You redeemed your promise.", Javert said from beside him, too soft for anyone else to hear.

Valjean noded his head once, but didn't avert his eyes from the wedding ceremony.

His world falling away, when they shared the kiss that declared them husband and wife.

*

When they entered their house, many hours later, Valjean wasn't only tired, he was weary.

He had spent too many years on the run with the single purpose to escape the law, unjust in his eyes, and the man who followed it to the letter.

Then Fantine had given him a reason for the rest of his life, cut short when he had handed her only child over to the young man,

who was calling himself her husband now.

How could he continue to live in a world such as this?

What was his reason to go on, when the man he had been running from was not only by his side,

but in his house... In his heart?

Valjean shook his head at himself and looked down at the cup of hot tea Javert had just placed in his hands.

There was a defening silence in the kitchen, until Javert spoke at last:

"Look at me, 24601."

Valjean's head snapped up at Javert's commanding tone.

"Look at me, Jean Valjean."

His words were biting and his eyes reminded Valjean of the stormy sea.

"Monsieur Madeleine. Ultime Fauchelevent. Whatever you want to call yourself."

He felt Javert's words cut him open, but could not find the will to stop his next words.

"There is no need for you to run or to hide."

Javert swallowed hard and his piercing gaze froze Valjean in his seat.

"You are safe."

The words were spoken so softly now, that he couldn't be sure he had heard the former Inspector correctly.

"Come with me."

Javert spoke from the doorway behind him and Valjean couldn't be sure when he had stood and passed him by.

Valjean stood too and turned, taking Javert's outstrechted hand - reminiscent of the time, when Javert had turned his back to the Seine,

and done the same for him.

He looked down at their joined hands and could feel the certitude, that at the end of the day,

Javert had found him and made sure, that Valjean could never run from him again.

A kiss on the forehead means affection. A kiss on the cheek intends to comfort and shows family realtionship.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean's hand in Javerts was dry and his motions were racked with pain.

Javert couldn't even begin to understand, what was in the older man's head that tortured him so,

but he was determined to find out.

Closing the door to their bedroom softly after them, he turned towards Valjean, whose eyes stayed rooted to the floor.

Gone was the defiant man, who had met his captor's eyes head-on.

"On with it.", he said, his impatience finally getting the better of him;

but the man across from him kept silent.

Javert looked down at him for a moment and, when not a word was forthcoming,

he rounded the other man and helped him shrug out of his jacket, loosened the knot of his scarf

and undid the buttons of his dress-shirt one by one, until that too could be shrugged off.

"I swear to you...", he whispered, pressing his lips firmly to the older man's tense shoulder.

"...I will be there.", Javert continued and then straightened once more.

Valjean shivered and then whispered brokenly: "Javert."

Before he turned and looked up at his dark haired companion.

"You are not alone.", he implored him and undid his belt and trousers with the same care,

while Valjean stood before him, a broken shell of a man.

"I am yours.", the older man whispered, once Javert had turned to put the worn garments away.

"That is what I swore to you when you let me go, and I have not changed my mind."

Javert turned and looked back at him with a fierceness in his eyes, that made Valjean feel.

"Do with me what you must. I don't care."

That brought a bark of laughter out of Javert and he turned towards the bed.

"You do care, Valjean. You care too much, even now."

With this, he pulled the comforter back and nodded at the man, who still stood in the middle of the room.

"Get some sleep. Life will look different in the light."

"Why are you torturing me like this?"

"Because you told me not to throw my life away... and I am telling you the same.", Javert snapped.

"On with it.", he repeated.

Valjean finally moved towards the bed, his head still bend, his shoulders hanging in defeat; and climbed in.

Javert nodded once and pulled the covers tight around the weary form in the bed and then stood over him for a moment, his eyes intent but unfocused.

Decision made, he lay down beside him, still fully dressed on top of the covers and pulled the other man's back into his chest.

He bend his head carefuly and placed his lips against the skin on the other man's neck.

"I love you.", he confirmed and let his eyes fall shut as well.

"May God have mercy on your soul."

A kiss on the shoulder symbolizes trust. A kiss on the neck encompasses passion.