Title: Monsieur's Dog
Work ID: 46034434
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: BDSM, Puppy Play, Dom Valjean, Sub Javert, dubious consent because madeliene era, Javert wants a dom daddy so bad he's shaking, he wants to be topped, Punish Me Monsieur le Maire, Praise Kink, Self-Harm, Mentions of Past Child Neglect, everyone has mental health problems, Valjean is very sad, Javert is very wet and pathetic, Valjean's identity problems, masturbation and wet dreams, Demisexual Valjean, Parent Fic, Cosette Eponine and Azelma are all Valjean's kids, How did this become parent fic? I have no idea but here we are: two gay Girl Dads, Violence, Character Death, a couple of instances of abuse between romantic partners in later chapters, First Time, Anal, Sex Toys, collaring, Bottom Javert
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 29/29

Summary:
Jean Valjean is determined to make Javert a better person by any means necessary, even if that means he has to use Javert's weird dog-play fetish to make it happen.

Work text:


The regular thump of boot on wood takes Javert back to the beating sun and the rhythmic heaving of masts and weight. It is almost soothing. It is not soothing enough. Too soon he stops outside of the office door and stands, head bowed, forehead almost pressing against the flaking green paint. His eyes are closed, he breathes out slowly and heavily through his nose, nostrils flaring. The leather of his glove squeaks as he clenches his fist. He raises his hand and gives three sharp raps. There is silence. 



“Enter,” the voice calls from beyond,



Javert opens his eyes, adjusts his coat and then swings open the door. 



There he is: the wronged party. The victim. Javert’s victim. 



“Monsieur le Mayor,” Javert begins, stopping before the mayor’s desk, “I- forgive me for intruding.”



The mayor adjusts the papers he had been sifting through and he pins Javert with a look of… not dislike, not irritation but definitely not welcome. It is right he should hold Javert in his contempt, there is nothing Javert deserves more. Javert gives a short, sharp bow more out of a desire to avoid the inevitable than anything else. Cowardice! And at such a late time in his life, he is almost thirty! He swallows his pride, a pride undeserved, and pushes forward,



“Monsieur, I come to report a crime against your person.”



The mayor’s heavy brows rise and his face opens,



“Me, Inspector? Should I be concerned?”



“Yes, Monsieur, for you have been grievously harmed, or at least an attempt has been made to grievously harm you.”



Javert’s fists clench and unclench, he cannot bring his eyes from the floor and he stares at the wood with a vitriol so great that you could believe it had personally offended him.



“Monsieur, in fact, you should be concerned for yourself now for the criminal who has so bitterly accosted you stands before you!”



There is silence and then it is broken by a low, unfamiliar chuckle. Javert’s head darts up and he finds himself face to face with his victim caught mid laugh.



“Monsieur!” Javert cries, “You laugh!”



“I’m sorry,” the mayor replies,



“No Monsieur,” Javert cries again, “You cannot! It is my duty to apologise! There is no humour in this Monsieur, you should not laugh. I have defamed you, Monsieur, I have informed against you.”



The mayor’s face falls and a darkness passes over his expression,



“Explain yourself, Javert.”



“Monsieur,” Javert grunts, turning his eyes to the floor once more in shame, relieved at least that the appropriate emotion has returned to dignify the event that must take place, “after your interjection in the arrest of the whore I was deeply wounded. My pride, Monsieur, it has always been brought to my attention as a weakness but I did not listen. I was so bitterly wounded by your disrespect that I wrote a letter denouncing you as the escaped convict Jean Valjean. I know-” Javert said as the face of the mayor paled to a deathly white, “I had my suspicions, yes, but they were misguided and tainted by my personal feelings. Not proper for a policeman not even a lowly police spy such as myself. I have shamed you, Monsieur, or at least I attempted it and in doing so I shamed myself. I must be dismissed, a misguided and reckless man without respect for authority does not deserve a place in the police force. I would be a danger to myself and others. I beg you, monsieur, punish me, exile me. Whatever you wish, I will accept it. I only ask you do not show your famous mercy to me now. Do not hold your hand. Treat me with the brutality I have shown towards your honour,” and with that he bowed deeply and remained there.



The mayor was silent. 



Javert held his stance, body tense, eyes boring into the floor.



“Javert…” the mayor began and Javert balked at the sound of his name from those oh-so-gentlemanly lips,



“- do not, Monsieur! You falter! Give yourself over to your duty and do not let your better nature guide your hand to mercy.”



“Javert, you overstep. It is not your place to command me in how I best serve my justice.”



Javert squeezed his eyes shut tightly and thinned his lips, swallowing,



“You are right, Monsieur. Forgive me.”



“Stand up straight, Inspector.”



Javert swallowed again and rose to his full height, shoulders tight and square. He lifted his gaze and affixed it to the mayor’s chest to avoid the weight of his eyes. Still, he could feel them on him, deep and dark and bearing down like the stone on the back of Atlas.



“Inspector,” the mayor began again, voice low and slow, steady as if calming a flighty horse, “I accept that you have wounded me, for I find myself asking what I could have done to have earned your deep mistrust. I accept that I struck at you first, it was wrong of me, perhaps, but I felt it my duty to step in and stop you from making a mistake. I know you are a dutiful man and a servant of man-kind; I hold you in esteem, Inspector, and had hoped you felt the same.”



Javert’s throat bobbed, his lips tight,



“Inspector, it is because I struck first in this feud between us that I give you my forgiveness. I hope-”



“Monsieur! You cannot!”



“I do not care to listen to your diatribe on what I can and cannot do, Javert!” 



Javert flinched. 



There was a deep exhale, a sigh of exhaustion or defeat,



“You weary me, Inspector, I admit. I have not been completely blind to your mistrust and dislike. Perhaps I wish I had been so that I might have been angrier now, instead I find myself relieved to hear you say it. I am not mad. I should have done more to intervene sooner.”



“You could not have, Monsieur, I am as stubborn as I am proud. It would have only been a mark against you.”



“Yes…” 



The mayor rose and ambled with tired steps around his desk to perch on the edge. Javert could no longer avoid his gaze and he lifted his eyes like a guilty dog, lips pouting.



“Please, Monsieur,” he said, voice quiet, “I beg of you, do not let me be the blackguard I have been seen to be. You are overly harsh, Javert, they say. You would not be so harsh with yourself! But I am, monsieur, I am because it is right and just. It would be wrong to hold others to a level of punishment that I do not see fit for myself.”



“There, Javert,” the mayor said, staring down at his own arms folded over his chest, “You demand I release you from your service and then you say such a thing as that: something that makes me believe you can be redeemed.”



“Monsieur?”



“I do not want your release, Javert, for it would be a release from consequence not a punishment. I would have you improve yourself. You are a fine Inspector but still young, still full of untouched potential. That is what I want from you, Javert, your potential.”



“I cannot, I do not… I do not know what you want from me, Monsieur. I do not understand what you mean.”



The mayor rose to his feet, unfolding his arms and instead, sweeping back his jacket, he tucked his hands into his pockets.



“Then I will have your respect, Inspector, and your compliance. I will teach you myself to be a better servant and you will listen and listen well. Put aside that pride you are so well aware of. May I ask… what is it that made you realise you were wrong?”



This Javert could answer and he raised his gaze to meet the mayors with a look of certainty,



“The man Jean Valjean has been arrested, Monsieur. He died in custody two days ago.”



The mayor had paled again, ashen and trembling he fell back to rest against his desk,



“He- there is no suspicion of unlawful death?”



“No, monsieur, it was a palpitation of the heart which killed him.”



The mayor passed a hand over his face as if closing the eyes of a corpse and swallowed heavily.



“Monsieur,” Javert said, “he was a dangerous man and a re-offender, not a man worthy of your pity.”



At this the mayor’s jaw clenched, the sinew of it rippling beneath the skin, and he raised his eyes now burning with a rage that had Javert stumbling back a step.



“This is your flaw, Javert!” the mayor snarled, rising to his feet, “You, a man who knows his own sin, still deems to place himself above his fellow man! Who is the greatest criminal in all of history? Lucifer himself! And his sin? Pride! Yet still you stand looking down, down upon your fellow fallen with such ill-earned contempt. You should be ashamed, monsieur, not for your one crime against me but your multitude of crimes against your fellow man! You are no better than a dog barking at a stranger for no other reason than you fear him his strangeness. Biting because you were told to, not asking for a reason.”



Javert’s mouth fell open and he mimed wordlessly his dissent, growing red in the face. 



“Begone from my sight, Inspector, but do not dare turn in your office or you will indeed face my wrath.”



Javert swallowed, eyes wide, lips pale, and then he bowed deeply and turned to leave, striding to the door. When his hand touched the doorknob he instead froze, once more captured by the mayor’s booming voice.



“Bark,” he said, “Bark.”



Javert blinked. His ears could not believe the words, they needed the confirmation of his eyes to read them spelled on the man’s lips. He turned on the spot, staring, mute. The mayor indeed snarled at him,



“Bark.”



Javert quivered, rooted to the floor. His fists clenched and unclenched, his thighs trembled, he swallowed, he blinked. Then he lifted his chin, opened his mouth and released a short, loud bark. 



“Now go,” the mayor said, turning his back to him.



Javert fled.



The madness of his boots on the steps reflected only the madness in his mind. He was blanched white, his eyes dark and wild, his lips parted in a gasp of disbelief. He staggered into the light of the street and covered his eyes as if burnt by it. He stumbled to a narrow street and leant up against the wall, breathing heavily. He was incensed, he was bamboozled, he was trembling with a rage he had never felt before. The injustice of it! The insult of it! And worst of all, he had wanted it. In that moment, watching that word ease itself from the mayor’s lips he had found he had wanted it, wanted to bark, wanted to lower himself to his knees before the man to beg like a dog for his forgiveness. He balled his hands into fists and drove them into his eye sockets, grimacing and gurning, and almost foaming at the mouth. He was on the cusp of madness. 



 



Toulon.



 



The forests are thick but not dense and it serves in the guards’ favour. In the distance the braying of dogs’ marks that they have caught the prisoner’s scent but Javert is sure that it is he they will be following, for his nose has found its mark more certainly than theirs. In fact, he spies through the bushes the warm, dirty tan of bare skin and he bares his teeth in a rigor of delight. 



“There you are, 24601. You cannot hide from me. Show yourself and come gently and perhaps your punishment will be lenient.”



It will not be, the best the man can hope for is that it be suited to his crime.



“I did not take you for a liar,” the prisoner dares to say and Javert’s grin moulds into a snarl,



“Enough of you,” he says, “Come forth or I will beat the bushes for you!”



The skin disappears briefly behind the leaves and then the broad, powerful body is stepping out into the light. Bare, and dirty and caked in blood.



“You are injured, you have wasted our time and your health.” 



“Monsieur,” the prisoner begins, opening his hands in a sign of submission, “Please, please, I only ask you let me visit my family. Three days, two if we travel quickly, but I must see my family. The sickness that spreads across France, I must know. If they are afflicted- if they are dead!”



“Shut up!” Javert snaps, “It is my duty to capture you, prisoner, not act your priest, I care not of your suffering. Should we let out every man with a family? No. You should be grateful you are not sick yourself. Now come here and acquiesce to your chains.”



He held up the handcuffs. 



24601 stared at him, eyes dark, defiant, chin tipped into his neck.



“You are no better than a dog,” he growled. Javert laughed,



“You are no better than a hunting dog,” the prisoner said again, “No more than an animal.”



Javert laughed again, and held up the hand cuffs, rattling them,



“Kneel and hold out your hands.”



Slowly the prisoner lowered himself to his knees, his eyes downcast. Javert clapped the handcuffs around his wrists and dragged him to his feet.



“There,” he said and he stepped behind him, pushing him with his baton to begin walking back, “Walk!” 



 



The prisoner was silent, sullen. And they only spoke again when they reached the gates of Toulon. As Javert handed the prisoner over a queer compulsion captured him, and with a rueful grin he tipped back his head and barked. The prisoner flinched and turned, peering at him with wide disbelieving eyes. Javert laughed and barked once more and then waved the prisoner away. 



 



He did not know then what a fateful act it had been.



 


 


 



 



They did not meet for many weeks and as time passed the memory of his treatment of Javert, of his unkind and uncharitable insult hardened like a seed in his mind and began to grow, germinating into the thought of the Bishop’s disappointment. He had not given Javert the benefit of brotherly love, the faith that was required to heal old wounds. Javert was right, that was the worst of it, not just in his assessment of Madeleine’s face but of his assessment of Valjean’s character: he was still that hateful man that Javert had held in contempt. How could he hope Javert might see him differently if he allowed that man to live on in his heart? The Bishop had set him on the right path through kindness, not judgement, and he had a duty to extend the same mercy to Javert. He decided it was best to summon him to apologise, and then he avoided doing just that. He was afraid.



In what was typical of him, Javert appeared regardless of Madeleine’s desire to see him. He arrived, sweeping along the wintery streets like some great black bird and passed through the doorway into the factory without request. He paused only to bow stiffly, say, 



“Monsieur,” and then he tramped up the stairs to the office. Madeleine watched him and then followed, apprehensive and unappreciative of the eyes of his workers.



The mood shifted as he entered his office. Javert was standing by the desk, back to the door, and despite his straight back and stiff shoulders he radiated nervousness. 



Madeleine closed the office door and imagined Javert flinched at the click. He paced round to sit behind his desk and found himself watching Javert pinch together a pile of sawdust over and over. They sat in silence for a moment and then Javert reached suddenly into his long coat and pulled out a piece of paper. Madeleine clenched the muscles of his thighs and jaw but said nothing. Javert un-creased the paper and placed it upon the desk,



“It is my list of suitable replacements. Those under my command who might be appropriate for promotion. It is a short list, yes, but well researched and I can supply you with my thoughts on each man if required.”



“Javert…” Madeleine began, he found his mouth dry but the mouth of an innocent man would not be dry in the presence of the Inspector and so he swallowed heavily and set himself straight, “Javert I do not need this. I informed you I wish you to maintain your position.”



Javert shifted from foot to foot, eyes still on the desk,



“Yes, Monsieur, I am aware however you made your contempt for me apparent and I thought it best I take my leave.”



“You wish to leave?”



“It would be best for you, Monsieur.”



“Surely I am old enough and wise enough to make such a choice for myself?”



Javert coughed,



“I wish to please you, Monsieur,” he said gruffly, “But I feel I am not fit to.”



Madeleine sighed,



“Do we need to have the same conversation?”



“Perhaps I am not a quick learner, Monsieur. That too would be a good reason for me to leave your service.”



Madeleine sighed again. This would be difficult, he thought. The man was not just unkind, suspicious and rigid but stubborn too. Petulant almost. The image appeared in his mind of a dog’s bed and a snarling dog, of himself, hands outstretched and asking for mercy.



“Monsieur,” Madeleine said, “What if I tell you I request you specifically? That I would have no other Inspector? That I would be satisfied by no other Inspector?”



Javert’s eyes darted up to meet his: they were wide and, god help him, fearful.



“Monsieur le Mayor-” Javert started and then he froze, swallowing heavily and dropped his head once more, hands clenching and unclenching at his sides, “Monsieur, I do not know what I have done to earn your respect.”



“Your duty, Javert, and nothing more.”



Madeleine rose then and approached him, as he had approached that fearful dog, hand outstretched, and clasped his forearm. Javert flinched and then forced himself still, trembling.



“Javert,” Madeleine began in a soft low voice, “I ask you to do more, for me,”



Javert’s dark eyes darted up to meet his once more and remained, searching but not suspicious,



“I was not always the man you deem so worthy of your respect. It took the kindness of another to help me become a man worthy of serving the people of Montrieul-Sur-Mer. I would be that guide to you. I would have you grow in your position here. I know you respect authority…”



Javert nodded,



“Yes, Monsieur,” he said gruffly, “I- you wish me to maintain my position here?”



“Yes, Javert.”



“Then I will serve you as you see fit.”



Madeleine smiled and softened his grip on Javert’s arm which he had not realised had grown tight, his knuckles white. Instead he petted that forearm as though he were petting a nervous dog.



“I have my commands for you then, Inspector,”



Javert nodded dutifully,



“I would have you be kind, Javert. I would have you report to me, not only on your successes in arresting the guilty but in your kindness in sparing those who are victims- not only of crime but of circumstance.”



“Monsieur,” Javert began, a deep crevice appearing in his forehead between his heavy brows, “I don’t understand what you are asking of me. It is too much. What do you request? That I let free criminals?”



Madeleine sighed,



“Yes, perhaps those instructions were a little too far advanced,”



Javert flushed red,



“Instead then I ask you this, you report to me on how you have comforted and reassured the victims of those you arrest. Is that suitable?”



“I comfort them by arresting the wrongdoer,” Javert said. Madeleine suppressed another helpless sigh,



“Yes, but I ask for more from you. If you find the concept so difficult take me as your study and see how I interact with the people I serve.”



Javert nodded guiltily and Madeleine realised he had once again gripped the arm tight and he released it and stepped back. 



Javert turned and bowed and then moved quickly to the door. He paused, turned on his heel and peered at Madeleine with an inscrutable look: wide-eyed and pale, then he bowed once more and exited, closing the door behind him. Madeleine exhaled heavily and sagged back against the desk, perching on the edge. He passed his hand over his ashen face and pinched the bridge of his nose. He trembled with fear. The image of the Bishop appeared before him and blessed him with a gentle smile. This soothed him somewhat and he lowered himself to his knees to pray. 



Javert’s mind was empty, his mind was a mad torrent of thoughts so overwhelming that it appeared to him to be a blank blur of nothing. His arm burned where the Mayor had grasped him. It occurred to him that that hand had been so powerful, so forceful, that he could not have helped but suspect him of being that impossibly strong man Jean Valjean. He immediately felt ashamed. Some part of him trembled and wriggled like a dog that had been pet. Some part of him shied away like a dog that had been struck. He laid his large hand over that place that burned and squeezed. It did not feel the same. He lacked the firm commanding touch of the most admirable authority. He realised he had come to a spot that overlooked the lower quarter and staggered to a stop, leaning on the short wall. The snow had begun to fall and it gathered on the rim of his hat and on the long black eyelashes that fluttered helplessly as those eyes darted about. He felt afraid, as though he had been caught in some unlawful act. What did the Mayor want from him. To teach him? To take him as a student? To train Javert to please him? The thought made something in his stomach roll over. He felt nauseous and nervous. To satisfy the Mayor was what he desired, so why did he feel so afraid? It was nonsensical.



The Mayor wanted him and only him.



The cold sent a shudder through him and his legs grew weak. He brought up his hand and wiped his brow. He found sweat there. He brought his hands together and clasped them, resting his elbows on the wall. He closed his eyes and bowed his head. His thoughts calmed. He would serve the Mayor, he swore, and serve him well. He would do as commanded, without question and with utmost respect. This was his sacred promise. 


 


  This proved to be a challenge. Javert did not need to observe the Mayor as example, he had watched him long enough to know his ways. This did not nothing to clarify to him what the Mayor wanted. Kindness. Kindness. What did that mean in practicality? Giving money to the needy? A waste, they spent it only on food which they consumed leaving them needing to beg once again, or on alcohol which drove them to crime. This seemed foolish. He started by petting a dog. The creature looked up at him mindlessly, cautiously wagging its tail and he grimaced. He was glad he was wearing his gloves. 



He mulled all day on what the Mayor had asked of him and found his time to make an attempt when a gamin snatched a coin from an elderly woman’s hand. He snatched up the boy by his collar and shook him until the coin fell from a hidden pocket in trouser leg. The boy hung his head as Javert collected the coin and passed it into the woman’s care. There was a pause in which Javert scowled heavily at her and she grew increasingly nervous under his gaze, then he grunted,



“Cold weather we’re having.”



She almost gasped and raised a hand to his chest,



“Y-yes, Inspector,” she replied.



Javert grunted again and then looked down at the boy,



“I will give him a night in a cold cell to clear his mind.”



“Yes, Inspector.”



Javert looked her again, seemed to roll his words around his mouth and then decided to leave them unsaid. He tipped his hat and dragged the boy away.



He pushed the scrawny little creature into a cell and then stood outside, hands on his hips scowling. The boy shrunk beneath his gaze, unaware that it was not set upon him but somewhere distant. Finally the inspector drew in a deep breath and marched up the stairs. The boy trembled. The gruesome figure returned a moment later and held something out to him through the bars of the cell. The boy slowly lifted his eyes and found them gazing upon something he could not understand,



“It’s bread,” Javert snarled, “eat it!”



The boy leapt up as if burnt and snatched it from his hand, eating on command out of fear if nothing else. Javert scowled and then stomped back up the stairs.



He found himself standing with his hands once more on his hips, staring at his desk. His stomach rumbled. He no longer had any lunch. He reached into his pocket and shuffled around the handful of coins he found there. He took them out and placed them on the desk, organising them by value and then portioned them out by necessity. In the end he had enough perhaps to purchase a small apple. He took off his hat and scratched his head.



“Being ‘kind’ will leave me poor,” he grumbled. 



It seemed being kind indeed meant being hungry and cold. He found himself with no money for coal or food by the end of the week. He sat wrapped in his coat, hunched over his desk and added his latest good deed to the list he had produced. It seemed conceited to him but the Mayor had asked for a report and to itemise it seemed his professional duty, afterall the Mayor might seek to confirm Javert’s claims and if he did wish to he would be able to identify the mentioned individuals to interview. This all made sense to Javert. He scrubbed his hand over his beard and pursed his lips. All written out the effort seemed… thin. Still, there was no changing it now. It was the end of the week and time to submit himself to the Mayor’s judgement. He folded the list neatly and drew on his trousers, buttoned up his vest and pulled his coat back on. He made his way to the Mayor’s factory. He would have preferred the privacy of a more official office but serving from the factory was the Mayor’s way and Javert was very much trying to convince himself that the Mayor’s way was the correct way. Or that it was at least above his criticism. 



He knocked politely and then waited to be called in. Removed his hat, closed the door, bowed respectfully and then approached withdrawing his documentation from his coat. The Mayor had rested back in his chair and Javert coughed into his fist and began his report. He did not need his notes to report on his arrests and so he folded his hands behind his back and let his gaze focus above the Mayor's head in the middle distance. He paused once he had finished for questions. There were none.



"Very good, Inspector, you are dismissed."



Javert baulked, 



"Monsieur, I have my other report to make!"



"Oh!" The Mayor replied, "forgive me, continue."



He readjusted himself in his seat and Javert swallowed heavily, drawing his eyes from the man and back up to the safety of the opposite wall. He brought his paper out in front of himself and unfolded it. He flushed heavily and began,



"Javert. The week of the eighth to the fourteenth. Seven counts of comforting conversation, tending on topics regarding the weather. Three counts of petting street animals. Two counts of feeding gamin bread. One count of removing a cat from a tree and returning it to a child. One count of returning a gentleman to his abode rather than arresting him for public drunkenness."



Javert coughed again and then returned his hands to their place behind his back, fist clenched around his note. He swallowed heavily. It took a few moments of silence before he grew brave enough to bring his eyes down to observe the Mayor's face. It was a strange expression he found there and his brows drew together heavily,



"Monsieur," he said, unsure.



The Mayor rose and rounded his desk with a pace that took Javert by surprise and before he could react the Mayor was grasping his hand and shaking it vigorously, his other hand squeezing Javert's shoulder almost painfully.



"Well done, Javert!" The Mayor said, almost breathless, a strange twinkle in his eyes, "well done! An admirable start!"



Javert blinked at him, his eyes wide. He was speechless. He blanched and grew flushed simultaneously. He grew hot all over. He found himself nodding. 



"Yes, Monsieur," he said gruffly. 



The Mayor released his hand and grasped him by both shoulders and stared at him,



"Yes, Javert," he said warmly, "A very good start indeed."



Javert trembled. His voice cracked over the word,



"Yes-" and he coughed in his throat to continue, "I will proceed as directed."



"Very good, very good," the Mayor continued as if speaking to himself and then he clapped Javert painfully on the shoulder and returned to sit behind his desk. Javert blinked at him foolishly and then gave a very deep bow and retreated on wobbly legs.



Javert felt light in the head. Something in his stomach was turning itself over. Why had he doubted himself? He had done an admirable job! An admirable job indeed! He puffed out his chest. He felt a little foolish. What had he done but the bare minimum? He felt ashamed that the Mayor had fondled him so affectionately over such a trivial thing. He resolved he would do better. It was not such a great hardship to go a little hungry and a little cold, not really. He pulled his coat tighter around himself and placed his hat firmly upon his head. Yes, it would be no great hardship indeed.



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Three weeks passed in this new routine. Kindness did not become habitual to Javert but regardless he worked hard at extending his list of good deeds. If he had ever celebrated Christmas as a child he would have no doubt been offended by the thought that he had ever been on the naughty list. Javert’s new life fit him like a poorly tailored suit and yet he couldn’t bring himself to resent it for every weekend he was gifted with the Mayor’s approval. It shouldn’t be such a sweet nectar to a grown man but he would not trade it for anything else and he found himself unwilling to acknowledge quite how deeply he had come to rely on that minor affection. His rooms were cold, his meals were scanty, and his clothes were more heavily darned than they had ever been but he had been without food and warmth many times in his life. It was pathetic really, his dependency, but as long as no one else knew he could assuage his shame. 

Javert knocked promptly on the Mayor’s door and waited, shoulders back and head held high. 

“Come,” the Mayor called and Javert entered, closing the door behind him with familiar confidence. He strode the centre of the room, waited to be acknowledged and then began his debrief. The Mayor sat with his routine confidence: leaning back, hands linked, elbows on the desk, a calm look of contentment on his serene face. When he had finished his speech, Javert bowed briefly and then began his second report:

“Javert, week of the tenth to the fifteenth. Seven counts of comforting conversation, constituting three counts of discussing the weather, three counts of discussing business, and one count of asking after family. To report, one count of returning a dog to its vagrant owner, three counts of feeding gamin, two counts of assisting prostitutes in recovering refused payment. Finally, one count of assisting a priest to gift money to the poor.”

When he had finished the Mayor raised his hands and began to applaud. Javert flushed,

“Monsieur,” he said gruffly, “There is no need to ridicule me.”

The Mayor rose and began to move around the desk, 

“Inspector I am not, I am fiercely impressed by your work ethic. You have taken well to this increase in your workload. Yes, I am very pleased.” 

With this, he clapped a firm hand on Javert’s shoulder. There was that familiar warmth again and Javert found himself standing somehow straighter and having to suppress what no doubt would have been a smile erring on the side of smug. 

“Thank you, Monsieur,” he said, keeping his eyes carefully on the opposite wall. It would do no good to look too closely at the Mayor’s face.  

The Mayor was squeezing his arm,

“No doubt I will be supplying you with further work, Javert. You will make a rod for your own back pleasing me so!”

“It is a rod I am willing to take, Monsieur,” Javert said and then he found himself growing suddenly shy, dipping his chin and coughing to clear his throat.

“I have an idea,” the Mayor said, squeezing Javert’s arm in a way that had him growing increasingly flustered and willing to agree with almost anything, “Why don’t you accompany me tomorrow evening giving alms? It is my most favourite duty of the day. Besides, it is private and requires no small-talk or casual conversation.”

Javert flushed,

“It is really so clear to you that that is what I find most burdensome?” he said

“Yes,” the Mayor chuckled, “but I do not begrudge you, for it is my least favourite duty also.”

Javert raised his eyes to meet him and his brows in question,

“You look surprised, Inspector, you must have heard rumour of my privacy?”

“Yes, but I must confess I had put that down to-” he froze, swallowed, “Well it would be better not to mention what I ascribed it to.”

Despite his attempt to save the situation the Mayor’s smile had waned and he gave one last squeeze of Javert’s arm and then turned to make his way back behind his desk. Something in Javert’s chest ached.

“Forgive me, Monsieur,” he said, “I have offended.”

“No, you have not,” the Mayor replied smiling sadly, “It is only that I have remembered some duties I must attend to. I will see you tomorrow evening? After seven?”

“If you still wish it.”

“I do,” he said with a weak attempt at a smile. 

Javert’s lips quivered with a failed attempt at a smile in return and then he bowed deeply and removed himself. 

Stomping down the stairs he found he had annoyed himself. The residual heat of the Mayor’s touch seemed more an indictment than the pleasant reward. He could work hard, he could please the Mayor but despite it all he would still have at his root that failure. That deep wound he had struck against the man’s honour. He felt ashamed. 

He only grew more ashamed as he made his way home through the thick snow. He felt ashamed because the Mayor’s praise was poorly earned. The truth was he did not enjoy or see the point of a moment of his new duties. They were, quite frankly, a burden. He knew, in his heart, he would have shirked them if it were not for the fact that he desired the reward. And what a reward for a man to desire! Was it not such a deep failing in himself that he had never known the kind touch of a man, and that now he received it he bent so willingly to it? Yet he could not see it fit to turn it away. He felt he ought to confess so that the Mayor could remove it from him, so that through punishment he might improve himself and somehow grow to value his ‘kind’ deeds as the Mayor required of him. Yes, no doubt Javert would learn better through punishment. He always had before. 

He ate a meagre dinner hunched over his work desk and then read briefly, very briefly. It was some treatise on the virtue of charity. He thought it naive. His head hurt. He put his head in his hands and rubbed at his eye sockets with the balls of his hands. When it grew too dark to read by the light of his single candle he blew it out, undressed in the dark beneath the covers and drifted into a disturbed sleep. 

It was difficult to sleep in the freezing cold of winter beneath nought but a thin sheet, blanket and shirt, and he tossed and turned, wrapping his sheet around his feet. When he slept it was deeply but only for short periods of time for he woke frequently, anxious for reasons he couldn't understand; mind grappling with someone unseen leviathan that tormented him. 

He woke suddenly in the early hours of the morning sticky with something more than sweat and he wiped his brow, hand trembling. He rose quickly and cleaned himself and then squirrelled back beneath the blankets. He closed his eyes to go back to sleep and found himself scowling. It was not the first time he'd experienced such night time expulsions, he was not a man prone to attending to his own needs and his body occasionally took it into its own hands. Yet something about this occasion has bothered him. He squeezed his eyes tight, willing sleep to come but it refused. He rolled onto his back and threw his arm over his eyes. What had he dreamt about? It's not a question he'd ever asked before. He never remembered his dreams and rarely dreamt at all. He knew he dreamt something tonight. Perhaps that is what has disturbed him? His mind drifted suddenly to the Mayor. He felt annoyed. His skin prickled. He rolled onto his stomach and crossed his arms under his head. His mind drifted once more to the Mayor, to the firm grasp of that hand, the strength in it, such strength that it could hold him no matter his desire to escape. He turned onto his side. He had disrupted the covers and let the cold air in. He grew even more annoyed. He was thinking about the Mayor because he was worrying about his duties, that is all. The image appeared suddenly in his mind: the Mayor's powerful, hairy thighs spread. His eyes opened. Had he dreamed of that? He grabbed at his face as if to rub the image from his eyes, it's no good. His face reddened and then paled- He is a pervert! How had it never occurred to him before? It is a horrible realisation. The Mayor had offered him a branch of kindness and what has he done with it but turned it into some perverse… well, he doesn't have the words for it. 

He struck his forehead with his palm. Then a thought came to him: it was a dream. Just a dream. A spectre of the night. It didn't have to be in his daylight thoughts, it didn't have to haunt his waking mind. Yes, it was an image, no doubt, from some plain of imagination outside of his control- it might not even be his thought! He didn't believe it; he couldn't convince himself. He licked his lips like a nervous dog. No matter what, he decided, he would not let it taint his treatment of the Mayor, the man did not deserve this level of disrespect. He shivered not only from the cold. He closed his eyes and tried not to feel the ghost of that strong square hand. The morning could not come fast enough. Work was the balm that soothed all aches.

Javert went about his day in denial. He was well practiced at it and his skill was only aided by his natural talent which showed itself in an infallible ability to not think. His distinct desire to embalm himself in the routines of work meant that he failed to fulfil any of his kind deeds quota. Towards the end of the day he realised and felt himself bow over his desk, weighed down by the thought of failure, dropped his head into his hand and surrendered, giving victory to the paperwork that he had failed to complete. He realised with a start that seven o’clock was looming. He had intended to return home and eat a meagre meal but he had overworked and left himself no time. Instead, he repressed the shiver of anxiety that passed over him at the thought of setting his eyes upon that angelic, masculine face and clothed himself in the armour of his long coat, scarf and hat.  

Madeleine shivered in the chill night air. He had wrapped himself in coat and overcoat but they were old and a little worn in the lining and did not keep out the cold as well as they used to. That or there was another reason he shivered. Yes, he was afraid. He had not considered the tremble of fear that might pass over him upon seeing the spectre of the inspector gliding up the street, black as the abyss and direct as an arrow, looming between gloom and the weak yellow light of the street lights. He was a horrifying sight. Peace, Madeleine urged himself, he is your servant not your master. No longer the master. This thought soothed him on some surface level. It was true that up until the reveal of Javert’s betrayal that the man had still treated his superior with the suspicion reserved for a criminal, but that great unveiling that been followed by an equally great cosmic shift and for the past few weeks the inspector had been no more than a puppy-dog, nervously licking at the hand of its master. It frightened Madeleine, for there was little faith in him that this state of affairs could last. He felt instead that he was watching the slow trickle of sand in a timer. That some other great event would occur that would shift their power once again and reinstate Javert as the rightful master. 

He put these thoughts out of his mind as Javert stopped before him and bowed deeply, beyond the necessary respect required.

“Monsieur,” the Inspector said gravely, “Forgive me my tardiness.”

“There is nothing to forgive Inspector, I have only been here but a moment. Let us walk together. My pockets are full and they must be lightened before I can return home.”

Javert dipped his head again and fell easily in step beside him, restraining his long steps to remain just a step behind. It was a strange feeling being followed so openly and yet being expected- no, required- to remain calm. That spook at his shoulder had his heart pounding in his chest and his stomach turning over. He felt as though he could bend and vomit in the street. He repressed it. Madeleine was no criminal and Jean Valjean was dead. There was no man left for Javert to hunt. 

The Inspector’s presence had another effect Madeleine had not considered; he made it distinctly more difficult to empty his pockets. The poor were so fearful of the brutal and implacable man that they shied away even from the Mayor, their beloved benefactor, when he entered their presence. This frustrated Madeleine but he tried not to resent the man for the effect of his presence and it seemed that Javert too was aware of it and bore it with an air of repressed embarrassment. With his pockets only slightly lightened and a sigh on his lips Madeleine stepped up to his front door, he paused and turned around to look down on that fearsome face, opened and paled by the moonlight,

“It seems we have had an unfortunate night, Inspector. Would you care to come in for dinner? My housekeeper has left me out some stew to warm.”

“No,” Javert said, eyes widening, voice low and gruff.

“Ah,” Madeleine responded. They spent a few moments staring at each other, caught in the awkwardness of failed farewells. 

“Monsieur I will leave you. I have hindered you tonight and failed you today for I have been uncharitable in my common way.”

Madeleine hummed,

“Well, a road isn’t always straight.”

“It would be better if it were. It is a failing on my part it is not in this case.”

“No, it is normal.”

“No, Monsieur, not for me.”

Madeleine chuckled, massaging his brow,

“Yes, well, we are not all the exemplary Inspector Javert.”

Javert flushed, swallowed heavily and bowed his head,

“Monsieur, I will take my leave. Dismiss me, if you will.”

Madeleine sighed,

"I would rather have you for dinner."

The man's face seemed to flush darker, no doubt with offense,

"I would rather you didn't."

"My company is not good for you?"

"It is not that-"

"My food is not good for you?"

"No, I-" he seemed to stumble, growing suddenly shy, "it is only: I've eaten."

Some tension slipped from Madeleine's shoulders. He had been more afraid tonight than he knew what to do with,

“Then you are dismissed.”

 

The truth was Javert hadn't eaten and his stomach had clenched at the thought of a stew but he couldn't bear the thought of imposing his presence on a man so clearly opposed to it. Oh certainly he had offered but only out of propriety. Javert was antisocial, not blind. He felt ashamed at the thoughts he had pondered on as they walked, no not the thoughts but the blind sensations. The fact that it had been a fine thing to walk in silence beside the Mayor and to observe his slightly irregular step not as a sign of his guilt but as a sign of his nature as a man familiar with hard work, as a man who had done his time amongst the common people labouring as they did without shame or entitlement. There was something honourable in that limp, and in the creases of that rough worn face, and the breadth of his shoulders which had so easily lifted the cart from Fauchelevent, not because they were the shoulders of a criminal but of a man who had no doubt lifted carts all his life before bettering himself by going into business. There was something worth admiring even in the profile of his face, in that protruding aquiline nose and the flat brow, the full lips and the adamant chin. He was an admirable man and Javert found that without the blinkers of suspicion it was easy to admire him. Even the light from the street lamps dancing on his hair was noble. 

When he had realised he was hindering the Mayor’s attempts at charity, ruining what he had stated was his favourite duty, Javert had been filled with anger, not at those who feared him for well they should, but at himself for failing in even this simple task. It seemed he failed everything. He was in a foul mood. He concealed it as best he could, just as he could see the Mayor was attempting to conceal his disappointment. A dark cloud hung over him as they walked and inevitably the mayor surrendered to the weight of Javert’s failure and they returned home having no more lightened the Mayor’s pockets than Javert’s mood. They stopped at the door together, beneath the warm light of a lamp that overhung it and the Mayor turned to Javert and looked down upon him with his sad face almost beatific in its attempt to appear serene instead of disappointed. Javert gazed up at him in awe and felt without doubt it should be clear he did so and felt with even lesser doubt that his awe came from a place unworthy and that it should be concealed for the Mayor’s sake. When he had offered to open his home to Javert that had been too much, that a man such as Javert, so lowly and unworthy, should deign to step into the home of the man he had so deeply and incurably wronged was impossible- was impermissible. He would have rather have been shot than dirtied the Mayor’s floorboards with the soles of his shoes and the filth of his soul. Yet he could not bring himself to say as much. Instead, he floundered and caused more offense. Angry at his pride and angry at his shame, both of which had brought him to this position, had lessened him in his own eyes and the eyes of the Law that had witnessed his failing. He wanted to be better, he feared it was not in his nature to be so. And yet had he not devoted his life to his betterment? Had he not decided and upon deciding made possible everything he wished? Javert was, in his own mind, a force of nature. He was also unfortunately, immensely stubborn and this desire to move forward inexorably towards betterment was at war with his stubborn belief that he could not change. 

These thoughts whirled around in his mind irrepressible and tormentuous all through his cold walk home. He arrived back at his flat, let himself in, was greeted by the matron who he ignored, and traipsed up the stairs to lock himself in his rooms and brood. He brooded while he gnawed on the crusty end of a piece of bread, he brooded while he dutifully stripped and folded his clothes, he brooded while he curled up under the covers, pulled up to his chin. His dark eyes stared deeply into the equally dark corners of his prison cell and he brooded on that also. Eventually, sleep relieved him from this burden. 

He awoke again to thoughts of the Mayor and rolled onto his back feeling hopeless. He knew he wished to please the man, to make right by him. He had awoken from sleep with that thought in his mind: I must satisfy him, what a pleasure it would be to satisfy him. That the man was worthy in a way no man Javert had met before could have been. Even, shamefully he admitted, his patron Chabouillet who he so duly admired had not imprinted this depth of impression upon Javert. He had been moved in some way and it had left him on unsteady ground reaching for the strength and solidity of the Mayor's convictions to guide him. He rolled onto his side, staring at the wall. Who was he to reach for this saint? Yet how could he not now he knew this ecstasy of goodness existed? Had this not been what he had wanted? A master worthy of his devotion? Someone as unquestionable and righteous as the Law. Yet, now he'd found them, he found himself ill-suited to them, as if he had spent his life fitting himself to the wrong shape. It was unfair he should have gone so wrong unknowingly and uncharitable that he should not now understand why he was wrong.

This was the core of his problem: despite wishing to please the Mayor he simply could not agree with him. He did as commanded but could not bring his heart to commit to it. 

To say that Madeleine was comfortable in the company of Javert was to not understand the two men at all. In truth he feared him as deeply as he had that first day upon seeing him, in that moment of horrifying recognition. Yes, the man seemed to have devoted himself to obeying the authority of the Mayor but how long would that dedication last? And once Madeleine was no longer Mayor? Would he still be safe? Would that dedication to the authority of the position apply to Madeleine when he no longer held that admirable title? Or would he be fair game to the hunter? All of these questions tormented him. It seemed there were three roads ahead of him. One; to flee M-Sur-M when the time came that his position no longer protected him; Two, to assert between them both the barren expanse of social order and to oppress Javert beneath the heel of his authority; Three, to play the role of the Bishop and offer Javert his mercy and education. He had so far been walking this path but each night he found himself doubting, wondering if it were wiser to flee. He had panicked tonight and believed that Javert had turned on him, it had spooked him. Javert had seemed genuinely apologetic and shamed and that had assured him to some degree, but still the fear lingered in him. He was almost glad the Inspector had refused his invitation, he had given it out of propriety and not genuine desire for the man’s company, but at the same time the Inspector’s company might have forced him to not acknowledge his fear for a few hours more. This was not a worthy reason to spend time with a man. 

 Madeleine, that is to say Jean Valjean, felt a great deal of guilt in his heart that he could not so readily forgive Javert as the Bishop had forgiven him. Yes, truly, he still hated the man who had wronged him. It was not the fiery hatred of his youth, the all-consuming blackness that had once threatened to drag him to Hell, but a cool contempt and disgust. A visceral reaction of nausea at the sight of him. He prayed fervently and often, and when meeting with his hunter affected a patient and kindly mien as he did with any of his constituents. Still, he felt this was not enough and he resolved to maintain his path and attempt to offer Javert the same mercy the bishop had offered him, if not for Javert's soul but for his. 

He did not see Javert the next day and he penned a letter, before he could lose his mettle, inviting him again to walk in the evening. To his surprise, and concern, he was rejected. It was a polite rejection, an insistence that Javert was unavailable that evening, and yet it was clearly a lie that could be unveiled with a simple letter to the prefecture to confirm his working hours. Madeleine did not write this second letter. Instead, he cut his losses. Javert could not avoid him forever. 

This fact was true and they met each other on the streets of M-Sur-M. The Inspector tipped the brim of his hat over his eyes and seemed to dip his face into his scarf as if by doing so he could disguise his incredibly recognisable silhouette. It was almost laughable. It was almost empowering to accost the man in the street, a switching of roles.

“Inspector,” Madeleine said and Javert drove his hands further into the deep pockets of his coat,

“Monsieur- Le-Mayor, I am making my rounds.”

“I see that, Inspector. I was disappointed to hear you are so busy recently.”

“Yes, well-”

“It is only I did not realise how much crime our peaceful town had.”

Javert grunted,

“These things always follow the flow of capital,” he said. 

“Yes, yes, I am sure you are correct.”

There was a moment of awkward silence in which Madeleine attempted a comforting smile and Javert looked anywhere but his face.

“I am sure I will see you this weekend for your report.”

“Actually,” Javert said, “It is possible I will require one of my officers to report to you this weekend.”

“Oh! But how will I hear of your personal progress?”

“Surely it cannot interest you that much,” Javert groused and Madeleine could almost hear the grimace in his voice.

“But it is, I have made you my project.”

This seemed to bring a flush to the Inspector’s cheeks and his eyes darted about the street as though he were a rat looking for a hole to escape into. He seemed to attempt an answer,

“Yes, well, I-” he broke off and Madeleine found himself grow bold, amused by the man’s nervousness,

“I’m sure you’re very busy. It is about lunch time, let us walk together and perhaps you can inform me of what you have been doing.”

This was not a request and was taken as the command it was intended.

Javert’s long strides fell into step just at his shoulder and they walked together. When it was apparent that Javert would offer nothing without encouragement Madeleine said,

“Well, Monsieur-Le-Inspector: report.”

“I have assisted the woman who manages the building in which I live in putting up some shelves,” he seemed to pause, glancing over to see if that counted,

“That’s very kind of you Inspector. No doubt you were tired after work.”

“Yes, well, she is very old and short.”

Madeleine couldn’t help but chuckle,

“I think most people are short compared to you Inspector.”

“Yes, I’ve been told I’m quite the gruesome spectre to behold in the depths of night.”

“I wouldn’t say that,” said Madeleine. He would say that.

“What else have you been doing?” He enquired.

“Uh, hmm,” Javert seemed to struggle to answer this question and Madeleine found himself losing hope, “Well it’s been a busy week,” Javert continued.

His eyes flicked to Madeleine’s face for a second clearly reading his disappointment and he swallowed,

“I have been reading a treatise on charity,” he said and Madeleine brightened,

“Oh?”

“Yes.”

“And your thoughts?”

Javert’s face wrinkled again and Madeleine spared him by stopping outside of a bakery.

“I am going inside to purchase something; I will give you a moment to gather your thoughts.”

When he exited, he came with two paper bags,

“Here, Inspector.”

The Inspector blanched,

“I cannot, monsieur, I cannot be seen to take bribes.”

Madeleine did laugh then,

“It is a slice of meat pie!”

“It could be perceived-”

“By God, man, it is lunch time. Do not offend me by refusing my gift. Please.”

Javert gave him a pitiful look, more like a dog refused his master’s plate than one being offered it, and he took the bag. It opened, steaming and they walked together, eating, attempting to avoid spilling its contents.

“Your thoughts?” Madeleine said when Javert no longer had an excuse,

“Yes, well, I think charity has its place. It is after all a healthy past time for the wealthy and upper classes,”

Madeleine had to hide his smile in his pie,

“However, I feel it is merely an excuse to flaunt wealth. Giving a man food for a day does nothing to change the meaningful status of his life.” He said this with great certainty.

“Yes, I agree,” Madeleine said and Javert looked at him surprised,

“That is why I have focussed on developing social programs to improve general quality of life. The pantry which I run out of my factory makes hot meals daily available to the poor so that they do not have to rely on one-off handouts and can redirect any saved income to paying down debts or maintaining their rent. My factories and schools offer opportunities for employment and education. Better overall education means better understanding of debt, managing personal finance, and offers better employment.”

“Yes,” Javert said, “But if everyone is educated everyone will want better, easier work. There will be no one willing to do the hard labour.”

“There will always be those who enjoy the mindless physical labour or who value being outside.”

“They will not value it if it does not provide the quality of income that the jobs of the educated men offer.”

“Yes, that is true. In that case, we must raise the income of manual labourers.”

Javert started at this,

“And where will you find this money? Who will wish to pay them?”

“Javert,” the Mayor scolded, “Surely you are not suggesting we maintain a society in which people must labour to earn wages below the living cost simply because it might make work for our country's economists? Ah, we are at the prefecture.”

Javert looked up, he looked surprised, as if he hadn’t realised where his feet had been taking him.

“I have enjoyed your company Inspector,” the Mayor said, and he found he meant it. Javert seemed equally surprised by this but tipped his hat and bent at the waist in a short bow,

“Monsieur. I will pay you back for the pie.”

“Please, do not.”

“I-”

“Javert,” he said warningly, “I have said no.”

The man seemed to flush and he dipped again quickly and nervously like a bird,

“As you wish.”

“I will see you tonight for our walk. Perhaps wear something that makes you less conspicuous?”

Javert glanced at him wide-eyed but nodded,

“Yes, Monsieur.”

He bowed again, thrice now, and then turned and quickly bounced up the stairs and disappeared from view.

What a strange proud fellow, thought Madeleine and, truthfully, he suspected nothing more.

 

I promise this fic is rated E for a reason. They just keep circling each other. Getting them to fuck is like breeding pandas- near impossible

It took Madeleine a moment to recognise the tall, loping figure that approached. It was a man with a stoop, in a loose-fitting, too-thin-for-the-weather dark blue jacket, and brown trousers about an inch too short; he wore a cap pulled low over his eyes and had his hands shoved unceremoniously in his pockets. It was only when he looked up with twinkling black eyes that Madeleine fully realised who he was looking at,

“Well!” he said, “I would never have recognised you!” 

Javert tipped his hat back over his eyes looking almost bashful,

“Yes, well, I did warn you I was a police spy. Disguise is a part of the job.”

“Well, you’re very talented. Come, no one will recognise you now.”

Indeed, it was a more successful night, Javert hung back, and kept himself in the shadows watching with sharp eyes alert to any potential attempts at thievery. There seemed to be no need for it for the money flowed eagerly from the Mayor’s hands into those of the grasping poor. The man welcomed being robbed. In between stops, they walked together talking generously about the state of the world.

“I have said this before,” the Mayor continued, “and no doubt if you had been there you would scold me for repeating myself but I will say it again: how sacred are our native plants which require so little from us yet give so much. Think of the purple bilberry, the dandelion, the mint, the humble mushroom who finds his home beneath the soil, the sorrel, the nettle, the pansy- all edible, all natural. And yet what work do they ask of us in return for their harvest? None. All of Nature offers us her uses if only we bend our ear and eye to her, if only we open our heart. There is nothing on this earth that with a little kindness cannot be cultivated for good. This is true also of men,”

Here Javert offered a barely repressed expression of doubt,

“It is true,” The Mayor chided, “For as a crop may fail beneath a careless hand so may a man’s soul wither away. There are no such things as bad plants or bad men. There are only bad cultivators.”

“I… admire your charity, Monsieur,” Javert said, “But warn you to be aware of your own naivete, it is the nature of man that he has free will and so can choose evil as freely as he may choose good.”

“Yes, I do not disagree: that is why he must be taught from a young age to choose good.”

“Monsieur, forgive me, but a part of man is his immutable nature and this cannot be educated away. As much as some men are born good some men are born evil.”

The Mayor looked annoyed at this, his noble brow furrowing and his lips pulling down into a scowl,

“No,” he said, “No, I don’t believe that.”

Javert stifled a laugh,

“It is not a matter of belief, Monsieur, forgive me, I know you are a man of faith, but nature is as nature is whether we believe in it or not.”

The Mayor was indeed annoyed and not hiding it,

“And you think you know better than I the nature of man? Despite that fact that I am your superior in years upon this earth?”

“Monsieur,” Javert said, “With the utmost respect age does not make wisdom inevitable, it is a matter of life experience. I have spent my life amongst the worst humanity has to offer I have seen it all.”

The Mayor stared at him for a minute and then a slow, sly smile spread across his lips making Javert scowl with suspicion,

“That explains it,” the Mayor said, “You have only ever seen the worst of the world, that is what has led to your arrogance and pride: you compare yourself only to the worst and mistake your faith in Radical Evil for truth.”

Javert spluttered, going quite red in the face,

“How dar-”

“But, of course, what would an old, ignorant, inexperienced fool such as myself know?”

Javert swallowed his pride,

“Yes, well,” he grumbled, dipping his chin deeper into his scarf, “I never said that.”

“Not in so many words.”

Javert paused, stopping dead in the pool of a yellow street lamp. The Mayor realised and also stopped, turning to meet his gaze. Javert stared at him.

Javert stared at him, eyes wide and glinting in the lamplight. There was something bare and vulnerable about him without the armour of his coat and hat, Madeleine thought. Something human, something raw that made him almost… touchable. His dusky face was slack and his look wounded,

“Monsieur,” he said, “You don’t truly believe I think of you in such terms?”

“Javert,” Madeleine said, “It was in jest-”

“It is only Monsieur, I know I have wounded you before with my ignorance but truly I admire you,”

Madeleine did not speak,

“It is true we have little in common,” Javert continued, “but our philosophical differences do not blind me to your goodness Monsieur. I do not give my admiration freely; my respect yes is inherent but not my personal approval. Monsieur, I- I-”

He faltered, wringing his hands in his jacket,

“I find I cannot find the words. I am not usually so talkative.”

“No,” Madeleine said after a moment, “I suppose not.” 

“You truly do not believe I hold you in contempt?”

“No, I suppose not.”

“And, I know have not earned it, but one day, monsieur, I intend to earn your forgiveness for my previous accusation.”

“Javert,” he said, “You already have my forgiveness. It is given freely.”

“No, Monsieur, I must insist: I will earn it.”

Some tension drained from Madeleine’s shoulders,

“Yes, I think you will.”

He held out a hand to beckon him, and Javert came at his call.

 

They paced home, cobblestones lit by the moon. They spoke not at all. When they arrived at the Mayor’s door Javert stepped up a step behind him and when Madeleine turned he found the man staring up at him. He almost jumped. He tipped his hat to the Inspector,

“I am afraid I cannot offer you my hospitality tonight, Javert.”

It seemed something like disappointment flickered across that honest face. Madeleine felt the sting of guilt; in truth, there was no reason they could not dine together.

“That’s quite well, Monsieur, I expect nothing,” Javert stepped back down to the pavement. He tipped the brim of his cap again, flipped his collar up around his face and turned, striding away down the street. Madeleine found himself watching him as he began to blur into the shadows. He fancied Javert turned and he lifted his hand to him but there was no response. Perhaps he had imagined it. He let himself in.

Why had he not invited the Inspector into his home? Because he had felt weak, shaky in the knees, shaky in his foundation. Truly he had not hated the man tonight and he did not know what to do with this barren hole where once hatred had been. He did not eat, he instead sat by the cold fireplace, his head in his hand, and thought deeply. Fell into an inescapable whirlpool of thought that kept him up much of the night. When the morning light began to slip in through the curtains he looked up, then rose on stiff legs and made his way into his garden. There he grew vegetables and flowers which he gifted to his workers. He stood for a moment looking out over his little rectangle of paradise with his hands on his hips. Then he squatted down and pinched up a handful of dry soil and rubbed it between finger and thumb. What could grow in barren soil? He did not know, but he knew this: he would plant a little seed of kindness and feed it, and with careful tending perhaps it would flourish. He smiled wearily and let the dirt fall. 

 


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


He wakes shaking, hand moving down to grasp his aching member, mind's eye still focussed on that scene: himself bared and vulnerable on his hands and knees for the Mayor. His heart still throbs with pride at the thought that he would take it. That he would be strong and he would take it and take it all without complaint! His hand works his length mechanically, his teeth grit. He knows how painful it is, he has heard men weep and cry out in the night, but he would not cry out- no- he would remain stoic, he would be resilient, he would take the Mayor's strength until the man had supped of his pleasure and then he would take that too, spilling inside of him. He spills over his fist, gasping, hips bucking. He flops down on the mattress, toes curling against the sheets. His cock begins to soften with shame. His spend cools and thickens on his stomach. It is wrong to think of the Mayor this way.

But

At least his dreams are always respectful. Yes, really, in his dreams he only ever holds the Mayor in the highest regard. He has never presumed to dominate him, never presumed to fantasize he might mount him. Instead, his dreams have been worshipful; are surely only signs and extensions of his waking admiration. Considering that, were they really so bad?

"I must tell him,” His lips murmured to the night air, "it is not my place to judge: I am the criminal, he must decide my conviction."

But how? Monsieur, I desire you. Monsieur, I lust for you. Monsieur, in my sleep I crawl upon my knees for you and beg of you every drop like a dying main begs for water. No, these were things that could not be said out loud. Ever. Under any circumstances. They were blunt and crude and did not capture the measure of it, did not manage to express the depth of devotion in Javert's heart when in his dreams he supplicated himself. 

He had been dreaming like this for more than a month.

It was now mid-December and the snow was only falling heavier. Ice was on the ground and accidents occurred every day. Much of his time was spent scolding irresponsible cart drivers who refused to acknowledge how treacherous the steep streets had become. The stark blue light of the day swept the dreams from his mind but when the night came, oh, when the night came how swiftly his hand slipped beneath the covers like a snake might sneak. How shamelessly it grasped him and squeezed him and conjured images of the man he followed nightly on his walks about town. How it took every innocent scene and gesture and turned it to a reason for hope. False hope. He hoped nonetheless. He hoped for mercy. It was bitterly ironic. Something he still struggled to give he begged for.

He had done himself proud this past month, he had pleased the Mayor in his efforts at becoming more charitable and maintained his work effort in arresting criminals. These two things had not inhibited each other. Occasionally, on their walks, the Mayor would give him a strange, searching look but these expressions passed and Javert could not bring himself to work at unveiling their cause. He had done his time investigating the Mayor, he had learnt his lesson. He accepted he knew nothing of the man and could only hope that one day he would be worthy of the Mayor’s secrets; given this time, not taken. Their conversation flowed more naturally and Javert found himself even occasionally conceding a point. Yes, it was rare but it did happen. 

On the evening of the fourteenth, they stopped in the snow as the Mayor stepped up to his door and began to unlock it. He turned again and glanced down at Javert, who had kept an appropriate distance since he had last been refused. There was a pause as that strange look passed over the Mayor’s face once more, there softened under the lantern. 

“Monsieur le Inspector…” he began, seeming to be debating his words as he spoke them, “Would you care to join me for supper?”

Javert was indeed hungry but that was not why he accepted.

They stepped into the dimly lit hallway of the Mayor’s private home and Javert closed the door behind them. They stood together, shucking their coats and as Javert watched that thick material slide down, unveiling the Mayor’s broad shoulders and back he knew the intimacy of this moment would appear in his fantasies. The Mayor hung his coat on a hook and moved ahead into the next room. Javert hurried to hang his own and followed after him, mouth dry. He did not know what he expected- for the evening or of the Mayor’s home. He had heard it was spartan but had not truly believed it. It was. What it lacked in fine decoration and expensive furniture it made up for in books. There was an old sofa by the fireplace and a small writing desk with a chair in the corner by the wall of bookcases. Javert tipped his chin back to read the titles closest to the top. The text was too small.

There was a polite cough behind him and he turned to find the Mayor standing in the doorway of a well-lit room,

“You’re a voracious reader,” Javert said,

“Yes, well, I was quite old when I learned to read. I have to make the most of my time. Come into the kitchen.”

Javert nodded and followed.

This room was also small and plain with a round wooden table that sat two people. The Mayor had warmed the stew through a little and served it in simple wooden bowls with pewter spoons. They sat together and Javert lifted his spoon and then placed it back down with embarrassment when he realised the man intended to say grace. He bowed his head obediently and only just peeked out of one eye as the Mayor murmured his prayer over clasped hands. Then they ate. It was a simple meal, cheap ingredients and with little flourish, but it was warm and filling and better than anything Javert had been able to afford recently and he savoured it. When they were finished the Mayor poured them both a glass of red wine.

“Better in here by the fire than out in the cold. Unless you are in a rush to return home?”

“No, Monsieur, no rush.”

“No one expecting you?”

“No, never,” Javert said, “besides, the hours I keep are often unusual and so appearing when unexpected is expected of me.”

“Hmm,” the Mayor said, “It must be lonely.”

“No, it is not lonely,” Javert said, “You must have an expectation of company to be lonely and I have never had that expectation. In fact, it is unusual for me to have company. Often I prefer to be alone.”

“Yes, I understand. There is peace in one’s own company.”

“There is no one who waits up for you…?” Javert ventured. Of course, he had heard of the Mayor’s reticence when it came to the fairer sex. To say Javert had no intent in asking this question would be a lie, and to say that he had remembered that he intended not to investigate would also be untrue. He certainly had an intention and it was a childish one: to divine if he had any possibility of hope with the Mayor’s affections. 

“Only my housekeeper,” the Mayor said, eyes gazing into the fire, “But I do not like to keep her late as it is unsafe for a lady to be wandering the streets at night.”

“Of course,” Javert said, glowing, “That is very considerate of you, Monsieur.”

The Mayor chuckled,

“It is the most common form of decency.”

“Not common enough. I am often having to gather up lost ducklings in the unfavourable hours of the night.”

The Mayor chuckled again, a strangely soft noise of disbelief,

“I could never have imagined you herding ducks…”

“Well, it is one of the duties of a guard dog.”

The Mayor ran his hand down his cheek and smiled in a way Javert had never seen,

“Yes, I suppose so. I’d rather see you herding ducks than biting them.”

Javert grunted,

“It is not my duty to punish the miscreants only to lead them to their judgement.”

The Mayor scowled at this,

“So you take no responsibility for that punishment or its effect?”

Javert looked at him,

“It is not my duty to punish, it is the duty of the Law. If the law is wronged it is the right of the law to right that wrong. That is how society is maintained.”

“The law cannot be wrong? The law cannot mis-serve society? The laws of men are not infallible and they do not stand above the moral laws of God."

“The ‘moral law of God’ allows for slavery and the selling of children to grown men as brides. Does that suit your morality, Monsieur?”

The Mayor’s face had turned red, 

“And the Laws of men are open to the corruption of men. What are our prison wardens if not our slavers?”

Javert grunted,

“They are the arbiters of the most dangerous subsect of our society. They are the guard-dogs who keep our civilians from being brutalised and robbed daily.”

“They are animals who turn men into animals. They are brutes and thugs who are offered legal right to commit acts of theft and violence.”

“Monsieur,” Javert snarled, growing tense, “I was one of those prison guards.”

“Then you should know better!” The Mayor said,

“I do know better!” Javert said.

They realised that they were leaning across the table at each other. Javert backed down first, quivering, and sat back in his seat. The Mayor’s jaw muscles flexed. He rose and then snatched up the bowls and began to aggressively clean them in the sink.

Javert sat in silence, eyes roaming around the room, investigating and cataloguing the chips in the tiles and the dirt marks, the coal stains, the pewter cups on the kitchen top. Eventually, the Mayor had nothing left to clean and he turned to eye Javert with a withering look. Javert knocked his knuckles on the tabletop,

“I have been rude,” he said gruffly.

“Yes. As have I.”

“But I am the guest.”

“Yes.”

“I can admit,” Javert began reluctantly, “that our prison system is not ideal-”

The smile the Mayor cocked at him was not affectionate,

“-but I am not ashamed of my career.”

The Mayor rubbed his hand over his face, shoulders bowing under some unseen weight,

“I do not want to browbeat you into agreeing with me, Javert. I - I want you to be able to speak your mind.”

“I do not have that right, Monsieur, you are my better and I should hold my tongue. It is not my right to be rude; not to a host in his own home or to a superior.”

“Javert,” he sighed,

“No, Monsieur, you have every right to remove me from the premises and refuse my company further.”

“I don’t want that,” the Mayor sighed, “I don’t want to strongarm you, Javert, nor use my authority inappropriately.”

Javert unclenched his hands and clung to the edge of the table.

“You-” he stumbled, “you should give me some punishment for my rudeness.”

“No, I do not wish to punish you it is only that you… you vex me, Javert. You aggravate me.”

Javert lowered his eyes to the tabletop.

“Yes.”

“But I do not resent you for it. I irritate myself with my lack of patience.”

“Monsieur, I am a man not a troublesome child. There is no excuse for my rudeness beyond my own bad temperament.”

“The excuse for it is my own rudeness.”

“I aggravated you.”

“And I aggravated you. So, we aggravate each other.”

He chuckled sadly,

“We aggravate each other,” he sighed, “What will we do with ourselves?”

Javert rose,

“I will leave, Monsieur, and I will promise you this: I intend to do better. I will please you, Monsieur, with my conduct. I will be more respectful and attentive as is suitable to your position.”

“I would rather you did not.”

“I do not understand you, Monsieur. I aggravate you and yet you tell me to continue; I tell you I am sorry and you refuse my apology.”

The Mayor chuckled,

“Yes, I am sorry.”

“Don’t be. Be stern with me, Monsieur. Be fair.”

“It is not the same thing. To be fair and to be stern.”

“In the right circumstance it can be.”

“Let us not fight again. Let me get your coat.” 

Javert banged his knee on the table leg as he stepped out. The Mayor squeezed past him and went through the living room towards the door. Javert followed after him, tail between his legs.

“I am truly sorry, Monsieur,” he mumbled as the Mayor put on his coat for him and then wrapped his scarf around his neck knotting it.

“I know,” he sighed, straightening Javert’s lapels.

They stood for a moment before each other in the dimly lit hall, Javert pouting and the Mayor refusing to meet his eyes.

“Travel safely,” the Mayor said and he opened the door.

Javert said nothing as he stepped out into the night. The snow was falling heavily and the air was cold but he kept his chin tucked into his scarf and did not look back, keeping his ears perked to hear the sound of the door closing. It did, and he kept on, taking himself away into darkness.

A week passed and Javert kept himself out of the way of the Mayor and kept his promise. He worked hard to improve himself, caught his tongue, tempered his moods, and attended to his ‘kindness list’. His initial anger at himself at ruining his dinner with the Mayor had long passed and now he only simmered with determination to right the wrongs of his nature. He was striding through the dockside streets when he overheard an argument. It was a wealthy man of the town being accosted by a whore. Another whore! he thought, what were the chances? High, seeing as these women were always cat-fighting with someone.

“What is going on here?” Javert said as he stepped into the fray, voice booming, “Tell me: who are the participants, what is the cause?”

The whore had fallen in the snow and was shivering. She was a hideous ghoul of a creature, shaven and toothless, all skin over bone. The gentleman was Bamatabois, a troublemaker, the kind of man who stalked these streets using his wealth and authority to prey on fallen women. A distasteful man but a man of status. Javert turned to him,

“What happened?”

“This street-whore attacked me!”

“Oh, Monsieur,” the creature cried, throwing herself at Javert’s leg, “I did not! I promise! Yes, I struck him but he struck me first! He threw snow down my dress!”

Javert’s scowl deepened,

“So, you accept you struck him?”

“Yes, Monsieur but–”

“It is not a crime to throw snowballs, madame.”

“But that was not-” she cried,

“Enough!” Javert commanded, “I see the scratches on his cheek, I have your confession,” he took her by the arm and dragged her to her feet, “Come with me.”

“Please!” she cried,

“Enough!” boomed a voice. 

Javert froze.

No, it could not be. It flashed back to him: the sight of the Mayor standing in the evening light, himself enraged at an interrupted arrest, the fight, the letter he had written in revenge. It could not be happening again! It could not! He turned slowly on the spot and yes, there was the figure of the Mayor.

“Release that woman, Inspector,”

“Monsieur,” he spluttered, “you cannot-”

“I can and you are aware of that fact.”

Javert reddened,

“I cannot,” he said, “She must be taken in for her statement.”

“No.”

“Monsieur-”

“I said no.”

Javert could not fight him, Javert could not not fight him. What could he do? He was put in an impossible situation.

"You may petition her release at the station Monsieur le Mayor," he said, grasping at the firmest tone he could produce. The Mayor paled, but it was not the paling of fear; it was the kind of pale a man went before he struck Javert across the face.

"Very well," the Mayor growled, "but I will travel with you in the carriage."

Javert dragged the whore towards his superior,

"You!" The whore cried hatefully as she realised who it was she faced. She hawked a fat wad of spit onto the Mayor's coat.

Javert was incensed,

"How dare you!" he snarled,

"Release her!" Growled the Mayor, peeling Javert's hand from her arm as if he were a child. Javert paled as the Mayor wrapped an arm around the woman to support her,

"Forgive me, Madame," he said, "For I have clearly offended you somehow. Let us get you into the warmth of a carriage and then we may talk."

"This is lunacy!" Javert snarled, 

"Enough," the Mayor said coldly, raising his hand to flag down a carriage, "Get in."

Javert climbed in, boiling, and was quickly followed by the whore who sat opposite him and then the Mayor who sat beside her. 

"You insult me again," Javert hissed, "you make a mockery of the law!"

"I have respected your ruling: we will go to the prefecture," the Mayor said sternly,

"You make a fool of me!"

"Javert,' the Mayor said, "this is not about you."

"It is when it is I you undermine in the public eye! What criminal will not seek you out to avoid arrest? We do not have to fear Inspector Javert! Simply call the Mayor and he will let you off!"

"Javert," the Mayor said, "We will continue this conversation when you are a little older. Now be quiet."

Javert clamped his mouth shut so hard his teeth banged together.

The Mayor turned to the whore, his look and voice gentle,

“Now, Madame,” he said, “please tell me, what have I done to offend you?”

“Offend me!” she said, almost laughing in disbelief, “You ruined my life! You have destroyed me, Monsieur! It is you who are the reason I walk the streets, you who has taken my teeth and hair!”

The Mayor drew back as if he had been struck by a snake,

“Me, Madame! How? I-I do not know you?”

“You do not know me? You have destroyed me and forgotten me! I worked at your factory, Monsieur, and you put me out! You had me sent out onto the streets because I had a child out of wedlock. Oh, I would have been married but he abandoned us. And is that my fault? That I loved and was betrayed?”

“No, Madame,” the Mayor said, clasping at her hands, “no, I did not know. I did not ask you to be put out. Why did you not come to me sooner? Oh, it does not matter, it is not your fault! It is mine. How can I fix this for you, Madame, what can I do to make it right?”

She stared at him as if transfixed. She blinked,

“You are teasing me,” she whispered, “you are mocking me.”

“No,” he said, “not at all, not at all. I would not. Let me make this right by you.”

“You,” she whispered, “You would truly help me?”

“Yes.”

“Then, then you would let me work again? Proper work, good work. And-and might you help me see my daughter? My Cosette! That I could have her with me-” 

She began to cough violently, body bent in two by the force of it. She folded over in the Mayor’s arms and he rubbed her back and shot Javert a fearful look. Javert, who had his arms folded, did not meet his eyes and continued pouting, staring fearsomely out of the carriage window. The Mayor’s jaw flexed and then he said,

“Madame, rest, ease yourself. When you have given your statement at the prefecture, I will see you put up in a warm bed with good food and the care of a nurse. You will be well soon and can tell me all about your daughter.”

“My Cosette-” she choked out between rattling coughs, “she is so sick!”

“I will care for her too,” he said seriously.

 The carriage rattled to a stop besides the prefecture and Javert made to grab at the woman as the Mayor helped her down, his hand was batted away and he and the Mayor glowered fiercely at each other. Javert stormed into the prefecture taking out his aggravation on his inferiors who he commanded to hurry up and get on with their work. The Mayor led the whore in on his arm as if she were some great dame. Javert’s fists clenched at the sight.

“Sit down,” he commanded the whore, jabbing his hand towards a chair. She sat, adjusting her skirts, eyes lowered respectfully. Javert sat down opposite her, adjusting his paper and taking up his pen and ink.

“Tell me then your version of events.”

“Monsieur le Inspector,” she began, “thank you for hearing me.”

“Yes-yes,” Javert said, “hurry with it.”

The Mayor sat himself down, arms folded and scowled at Javert as he spoke.

“Well, Monsieur-le-Inspector, I was walking- I am licensed, Monsieur, and not a criminal, and as I was walking the gentleman began to shout abuses at me. I ignored him, I did not wish to take umbrage with a gentleman but he did not leave me alone. He grabbed me and I screamed and he shoved a handful of snow down my dress, cursing me. It was not a snowball, Monsieur. He threw me to the ground. I am sick, Monsieur, unwell in the chest and I was afraid I would become more sick. When he attacked me, I scratched at his face so that he might release me, and then Monsieur, forgive me but I was distressed, I struck at him out of fear and anger.”

Javert hummed and grunted as she spoke, pen scratching over the paper.

“There, Inspector,” the Mayor said, “Your statement is taken and the victim discovered. Let me take her now and you may take the gentleman Bamatabois into custody.”

“Yes, well” Javert answered, not looking up, “if she speaks the truth.”

The Mayor bristled, 

“You have no reason to doubt her.”

“She is a whore, he is a gentleman.”

“A gentleman who spends his evenings tormenting women!”

“He would not be the only gentleman who spends his evening walking amongst whores,” Javert said snidely. 

The Mayor rose from his seat,

“Monsieur-le-Inspector,” he said grimly, “I would speak with you in your office.”

Javert rose, tight-lipped and they entered into his office together. Javert walked in arms folded and stared out of the window into the street below. The Mayor rounded the desk after him and stood about six feet away. They stood in silence. 

“Well,” the Mayor said, expectantly.

Javert did not answer. 

“Out with it.”

“What is there to say Monsieur? You insist on undermining my authority, on inhibiting the process of justice, on-”

“It is not inhibiting the process of justice to make sure that justice is done and statements are taken.”

“You would not have had her statement taken, you insisted on interrupting her arrest.”

“It should not have been an arrest. I would have taken her to be changed into warmer clothes and then had her questioned. Why now must she sit soaked through in freezing clothes when she is already unwell? If she were to grow sick and die would that be the fault of the law or of you?”

Javert turned to him, scowling deeply and bitterly,

“It would be neither. It would be her fault for being a whore!”

“No!” the Mayor said angrily, “It would have been my fault for allowing her to be let go!”

“That is true,” Javert said, turning away again, “It would be your fault.”

The Mayor trembled, fists clenched at his side.

“It is your damnable pride again,” he said.

“No, Javert answered, "not pride. It is my humanity you so praised. A man cannot tolerate to be shamed, degraded, and disgraced in front of the people he requires to respect him. Besides that, he should not be treated so by-” here he froze, mouth clamping shut.

“Go on,” the Mayor said, “You wish to say a criminal. You still suspect me.”

Javert glanced at him wide-eyed,

“Don’t be foolish!” he cried, “I wished to say ‘a friend’!”

The Mayor’s face paled, the death-grip of his hands softened,

“Javert,” he said,

“Don’t. Don’t. It was foolish of me,” Javert said bitterly, turning his face away once more, “you told me yourself I was a project. I should not have let our familiarity led me to believe otherwise. It was childish. A man of my age and position does not make friends with his superiors.”

“That is why you are so angry…” the Mayor said, voice softening, “Javert I did not mean- it was not a personal slight. It is not that I do not care about offending you or making you seem small.”

“It is only that you do not care enough to not do it? Or that I am not important enough- my reputation and career are not important enough.”

“Javert” the Mayor murmured, approaching and reaching out a soothing hand to touch his arm. Javert flinched away,

“Don’t.” he said. “You confuse me. I would rather know my place.”

“It is not that I don’t care,” the Mayor said gently, “I do. I would not wish to wound you. You must know that?” 

He could see by Javert’s grim expression that he did not. 

“Javert,” he continued, “it is not that I don’t care about your reputation or about hurting you it is only that in that moment her need was greater than yours. You might be wounded, Javert, but she might die. Surely you must see that?”

Javert shook his head petulantly. The Mayor reached out and gently laid his hand upon Javert’s arm. Javert turned to him, lips pouting, eyes sharp. They stared at each other a moment and then Javert lunged towards him, bumping their noses. The Mayor drew away. He gave a sharp intake of breath as he did so, his face turning white and his mouth falling open. Javert turned red and then paled, staring at him wide-eyed.

“M-Monsieur,” he said, voice trembling, “I did not- I do not- I didn’t-”

The Mayor stared at him, mute. Then he turned and left the room. Javert stood alone at the window. He shook. He clasped at his arms, digging his fingers into the flesh painfully. His legs grew weak, he felt faint. He felt nauseous. He staggered to the corner of the room and pressed his face into it. His breath came shallow and quick. 

It could not- he could not- no it was not possible. He had tried to- he would never! He had tried to kiss the Mayor! And the man had been disgusted by him. Filled with revulsion. He had fled. Javert’s hands released his arms only to grasp at his head, nails scratching the skin of his cheeks and forehead, he bit down so hard on his bottom lip he drew blood. He began to shake violently and he dropped down into a squat, pressed into the corner of the room. Oh God! What would he do? This would be it. He would not only be fired his reputation would be destroyed. He would be outed as a pervert. He would be followed by shame where ever he went. He would perhaps have to change his name or move to England. Oh God! If only he had not done it! Why had he done it? He clawed at himself in misery, he pulled at the hair on his cheeks and his head. He did not cry, this man who had not cried since he had been a boy. This man who had had all the tears of his lifetime beaten out of him. He shook and rocked to soothe himself. He yanked out clumps of his hair. He hissed and murmured. He squeezed his eyes tightly closed. Had it been worth it? To ruin everything he had made of his life only to be rewarded with loathing? What else could he have expected? He was a foul creature, barely human: a dog-son-of-a-wolf wearing a human face. He had never been loved before; how could he have thought this any different? He was mad. That was the only answer to it. He would claim madness. He would have himself put away for his own safety. It would be better than this. If only he could have resigned! He could have left under his own terms! He could have started out a new life with only a minor stain on his conduct compared to the ignoble bruise that now darkened all his life in perpetuity. Why had he done it? How could he have expected any different?

After sometime he grew cold. His emotions flattened, he felt nothing and saw only darkness. He resolved that he would commit himself to a life of suffering or, if not that, death. This idea was not set in his mind but at the time it felt so. He was trapped. There was no future for Inspector Javert. He had only his hard-won reputation to his name and nothing else: no money, no property, no family, no friends, no love. Without the title of Inspector what would he be? Nothing. He knew this to be a fact. 

He had no mirror in his room but he rose to his feet and tidied his hair and beard as carefully as possible and then scrubbed his face. He could not know how he had injured himself. He left his office. His officers looked at him in surprise and concern,

“Inspector,” one said, “Are you not well?”

“No,” Javert answered, “I will be returning home to rest. I will be returning to work as usual tomorrow. Fournier, you are in charge in my absence. Continue your work as is expected of you.”

He did not give them time to ask anything more of him, he trod down the stairs like a man going to his death.

He indeed returned home. A part of him thought to walk out into the forests and keep walking and not look back. That he might simply keel over and die somewhere never to be found or to be eaten by animals. He did not. He went home and laid down in bed, fully dressed and without removing his stock or shoes. He pulled the blankets over himself and lay eyes open, seeing nothing, thinking nothing, feeling nothing. Eventually, he fell into a deep, exhausted sleep. 

He awoke pained by grief. He sent a letter saying he was still unwell. Sometime after twelve he rose and looked at himself in the mirror. His face was covered in marks where he had scratched himself. Clumps of hair had been pulled from his head and there was some dried blood. He washed his face and hair in a bowl of cold water. He sat on his bed. He thought to write his suicide note. He knew there would be no one to read it. He did not even know who to address it to. He thought perhaps Chabouillet but no doubt the man would be disgusted by him once the Mayor informed him of what he had done. Of what he was. He still did not weep. He sat like that for several hours, waiting for a knock on the door. For word to come that he must pack his things and leave. He owned very little; it would not take him long. He was deep in despair. Worst of all, his heart still ached for the Mayor. It still yearned. It wished that the man might come through that door and offer apologies, might explain he had just been shocked and then he might take Javert in his arms and- no, it was foolish. Every thought was like a new knife in his breast. He had to admit to himself now that he was in love and that he despised the feeling. Nothing worse had happened to him in his life. He wished he had not been born this way. He wished he had never met the Mayor. He wished he had never discovered that there was a heart in his breast. He did not want to weep. He lay down in bed and finally he wept. He had thought it not possible but so much he had thought impossible had been made true by that man’s horrific effect on his life. If only he were not human, he thought, he might be free of this grief.

He fell into a deep sleep once more, his body exhausted of tears. The next day he woke, washed, changed, and went to work. It was as if nothing had changed in the world of Inspector Javert. Inside he was walking on ice. Outside he was made of ice. He did everything mechanically, even his acts of kindness. He still awaited his grand shaming. He still awaited the falling of that sword on his neck. He hoped for it now, for he grew tired of waiting. 

On the fourth day he received a letter summoning him to Mayor’s presence. He was relieved. It would be done.

He finished his work day as usual and then took himself to the Mayor’s office, head held high, heart empty of hope. He had cried it all out.

His heart was at ease as he ascended the steps toward his doom. He was prepared, prepared for the firm look of revulsion he would receive, or perhaps it would be pity. The Mayor was known to pity the unfortunate. He rapped smartly on the door and waited. It took only a second for the Mayor to call him in. Javert opened the door with confidence and entered, closing the door behind him and then pacing to stand at attention in the middle of the room. He held his chin high. The Mayor indeed looked pitying.

“Monsieur le Inspector,” The Mayor said, despite having summoned Javert he seemed at loss of what to say. Javert fixed this for him,

“Monsieur le Mayor let me speak on your behalf. You are disturbed by my behaviour and rightly so; I repulse myself. My behaviour cannot be fixed, I am afraid I must assure you this is so. It is better for you, Monsieur, for your comfort, that I leave your presence. Send me away Monsieur, if I might have one ounce of pity from you- undeserved- I ask it, for I would leave here with my reputation intact. I ask you, please, tell no one of my infraction.”

“Javert,” the Mayor began again, “I-I didn’t bring you here to be rid of you.”

Javert breathed in sharply, nostrils flaring,

“Monsieur,” he said shudderingly, “Do not, I beg of you. Do not show me your famed mercy and ask me to stay: I cannot.”

“You would leave Montreuil sur Mer?”

“I would leave you, Monsieur.”

“Surely this cannot be so great a thing between us-”

“It is, monsieur.”

“You are embarrassed-”

“It is worse than that: I am afflicted.”

Javert had not had the courage to bring his eyes to the Mayor’s face but he watched as the man shifted in his periphery. 

“Talk to me, Javert,” The Mayor said softly, torturously, “Explain to me.”

“Please,” Javert said, “Do not.”

“I want to understand.”

“I have only tatters of my dignity left. Do not rip them from me.”

“I am afraid for you, Javert.”

“For my soul,” he replied, smirking

“No. I am concerned you have been out of work since our fight. I am concerned at what I have heard.”

“Do not pity me.”

“Tell me.”

“I would rather die.”

The Mayor rose and slowly began to round his desk. He moved as if approaching a wild, cornered animal. Javert’s jaw flexed. The tendons of his hands rose beneath his skin. Eventually, the Mayor made his way into Javert’s line of sight and there was nothing to do to avoid it. Javert cast his eyes up to the ceiling.

“Javert,” the Mayor said, “look at me. I am sorry for how I reacted… it was not… it was not kind.”

“It was right of you. I should have expected nothing less.”

“I didn’t know how you felt. I still don’t understand how you feel.”

“Please do not ask me.”

“I must. You are a man of truth I want… I want truth between us,” this was said with difficulty.

Javert finally looked at him,

“You want the truth, Monsieur? You want the truth from me? At the cost of my pride, at the cost of my dignity, at the cost of my-my- you do not want it but I will give it to you. Oh, if it were as simple as a mistake!” 

He barked this word and the Mayor flinched back from him. Javert bared his fearsome teeth, every inch the cornered animal,

“If it were as simple as a youthful crush! It is worse, Monsieur! It is a horrific thing; you are right to look afraid!”

He growled,

“I am in love with you!”

The Mayor paled, eyes wide. Javert laughed, a bitter, rough sound of mocking amusement,

“Yes,” he said, “yes, the right reaction. The natural reaction. If I had ever loved before perhaps I would have had practice responding to such a reaction. Perhaps I would have been able to take it with more grace.”

“Javert,” the Mayor said, “I’m sorry I- I didn’t know. I- I can’t reciprocate your feelings.”

“I know,” Javert said quietly, “I would never ask you to. You see it is better if I leave.”

“I would be selfish; I would have you stay.”

Javert breathed in deeply and exhaled. He lowered himself slowly to his knees,

“What-” the Mayor began. Javert clasped his hands together and bowed his head,

“If I must beg I will beg. Please, Monsieur, free me. I cannot remain in your presence. I do not know if you have ever loved but it is agony. I would not live in this pain forever.”

“Javert surely-”

“I tell you this, Monsieur, I have known pain in my life. You might not believe me, you may think I am exaggerating, but know I have known pain. I have never known pain like this. I thought before only fools killed themselves for love but I can understand how one such afflicted would seek any cure, even the most final one.”

Javert raised his head and met the Mayor’s look of fearful horror,

“Monsieur,” he said gravely, “let me love you or let me go. It is all there is for me.”

The Mayor swallowed heavily. He slumped back to rest on the edge of his desk. 

“I didn’t,” he began, “I never considered. You of all people. And me. I of all people? If only you knew me, Javert, you would not love me.”

“It is not a choice.”

“I am not the man you think I am,” the Mayor said, words seeming to stumble over themselves to escape his lips, “I am not worthy of your love. I am not. I do not speak of my past because I am ashamed of it. I have kept secrets from you, I would keep more from you.”

“It is no matter,” Javert said, “I would love you regardless. I must tell you something,” 

His voice was grave but his eyes wide and with a sad resigned sort of pleading, as if he asked but expected not to receive, “I must tell you this secret loathsome thing.”

“Do not,” the Mayor said, turning his face away, “Do not tell me your secrets unless you must Javert.”

“I must! I must be truthful with you. I would be truthful with you and would accept your every lie. I was born in a prison, Monsieur,”

The Mayor looked down at him with shock upon his handsome, pained face,

“Javert?” he said, “What can you mean?”

“I mean as I say, Monsieur, I was born in a prison. My mother was a fortune teller and my father in the chain gang for life. It is all I have ever known, Monsieur, that is why I so fiercely protect it; if it were not for those good prison guards teaching me what it meant to be a man lord knows where I would be today. Possibly in the chain gang myself. That is why I know something of shame in one’s past. Why I understand it is better to forget and be forgotten."

“Surely not,” the Mayor said, bringing a trembling tender hand to cup Javert’s jaw, “You would not. Not you, Javert. I do not believe that.”

“What might have been cannot be known,” Javert said, “But I tell you this: I have never been loved. I do not believe even by my mother. If I was, I cannot remember it. I do not expect it in life, I do not ask for it.”

“Oh, Javert,” the Mayor said, bowing his head, “I thought I knew you, I knew not at all.”

“Do not pity me, please,”

“I do not pity you, Javert, I feel for you. I grieve for a boy born within prison walls.”

His thumb stroked tenderly over a particularly nasty mark Javert had left on himself as he had clawed where his beard met his cheek,

“Monsieur!” Javert cried, all self-restraint leaving him. He brought hands up to grasp at the back of the Mayor’s knees, “I beg of you! Do not pity me, do not pity me- only let me love you! Let me worship you as I wish! I ask nothing of you in return but the kindness you offered me freely before. I know you cannot reciprocate; I would never ask it of you. I know it is not possible. I know it could never be possible. I know what I am and what this life offers me, perhaps in the next life that love will be offered to me but it is not for this one; I accept that. Please, Monsieur, I only ask you give my loving heart an outlet. That you let it speak, that you ask me not to lie about how I feel. I despise lies, I am a man of truth. You know this.”

“I do know this,” the Mayor said, eyes pressed tight with pain,

“Oh, Javert,” he said, “How I have hurt you. How I have wronged you. How cruelly I have thought of you in my mind and how unjust I have been.”

“You have done me no more wrong than I deserve, Monsieur,” Javert said fervently, “I only ask you let me love you. Put me from my misery. Show your mercy to me now: let me love you or send me away so I might not see you. My devotion to you will not die but perhaps with time I will grow used to the pain.”

“Even if I do not love you,” The Mayor said, covering his face with his hand, “I would not see you in pain. I have seen too much pain in my life. I have known the power of love to transform also, although I have never loved.”

“Javert,” he said, peering between his fingers, his other hand toying mindlessly with the bristles of Javert’s cheek, “truly I might ease your pain?”

“Yes.”

“If I let you… devote yourself to me?”

“Yes.”

“You would not resent me? You would not hope you could change my mind.”

“I would not change you in any way. I would not see you degraded to love someone as lowly as myself.”

The Mayor’s mouth pulled down into a grimace of grief,

“Do not say that. That is a terrible thing. Be kind to that boy in the prison. He was just a child. How could he know any other way? How could he who lived in darkness and felt no love know how to shine the twin lights of mercy and love on others. Oh, Javert, what a terrible thing. I have resented you and painted a picture of you in my mind worthy of my resentment. I never knew. I cannot hurt you. I would not strike at you in vengeance or hatred. God help me, perhaps it will ruin me but I could not bear the deserved lashings Hell might place upon my soul if I did so.”

Javert stared up at him, helpless, not understanding. Slowly he raised his hands and took the Mayor’ hand from his cheek and held it tenderly between his own. The Mayor lowered his hand from his face and stared at him in disbelief. Javert brought his hand to his lips and pressed a gentle kiss to the back of his palm. He looked up with searching eyes, found his answer and turned the Mayor’s hand to show the palm and just as gently kissed there. 

“Monsieur,” he said, “that is all I ask of you. Think on it. Do not decide out of pity. I will wait.”

Then he rose and bowed deeply as he stepped back. 

“Monsieur,” he said gravely, not raising his eyes, “think on what your conscience could tolerate from me. Do not act out of mercy or pity. I will resume my duties. When you are ready to pass sentence, contact me.”

Then he turned and strode out of the room.

 

Madeleine slumped back against his desk and then over it. He threw his arms of his face and hid himself. He despaired. The image of a child, dirty and scrawny in the deep darkness of a prison cell filled his mind. Tears fell from his eyes. He saw himself, no, he saw Jean Valjean: a man filled with hatred, fearful, dirty, violent with wrath against all the world. He, an adult, had barely survived such a place, what would it be to be a child there? What must those innocent eyes have seen? He cupped his face in his hands and wept bitterly on Javert’s behalf. He had hated this man for his coldness, for the disinterest in his gaze as he glanced upon the sights Toulon offered yet how could the child have survived if he had felt anything more? No doubt those cruelties were normal to the man, it was all he had ever known. How could he have ever seen Valjean? He had only known prisoners. And what had been the child’s crime? He had been born. And now, now the man asked something of him he couldn’t give. He asked for love. Valjean felt he could not love him. His own heart was cold, although his countenance and actions were kind. He could not remember if even his own sister had loved him, although he assumed she must have for he missed her painfully. Could he love Javert? But Javert had told him he need not to. He had insisted it impossible. What a pair they were with their hearts of stone and their faith that love was for others and not them.

What would it be to be loved by Javert? That implacable, iron man. The image of Javert on his knees before him rose in his mind’s eye, the tender touch of Javert’s lips on his hand as if he wished to soothe away any pain, as if he were consecrating them. A strange feeling passed over Valjean, he did not recognise it and could not name it. Perhaps it was a cousin of fear. He did indeed fear Javert but when he looked down at that helpless, adoring face he felt only fear for Javert. Would that sympathy be enough to help him tolerate the man’s love? His mind was in a whirlwind, his heart ached. He wished to wrap that child in his arms and protect them from all the horrors he saw in his own dreams. The horrors that drew his heart into his throat and set a cold sweat upon his brow even now. 

And then there was Fantine and her child! The woman had been under the effects of morphine for several days. The doctor had said she might not live. He had gone to her apartment and found letters but they had no return address and he could not identify the family Thernadier in Montreuil. He hoped that child was safe at least. He groaned and rubbed his sore, red eyes. What would the Bishop do? He could not even conceive. He would call Javert brother perhaps, but it was not what Javert wished to be called. He wished to be called lover. The image of that hateful prison guard with his grimace of contempt appeared in his mind and he felt sick and then it was followed by the image of the helpless man on his knees. How could these two men be the same? One gave only hatred, the other reserved only love. Because he looks at a different man, a treacherous voice whispered, his hatred is for Jean Valjean and he would hate him still if he saw him.  

Valjean was exhausted by his thoughts. He resolved to go home and try to sleep. The prison guard had given him a reprieve at least. He could think on this further. He felt himself on the precipice of some great decision and he hesitated. He knew not what lie ahead and felt that everything behind was in a haze, concealed from him. He felt to some degree powerless, as though some great tide of life were sweeping him downstream towards his fate. 

He went home but did not sleep. Instead, he spent the night on his knees in prayer, praying for the strength to love. 

 

Changing the rating to M with certain chapters marked E because they're just refusing to fuck

Madeleine rose in the morning on stiff knees. His mind was still unclear. He felt deeply sad. He knew he could not love Javert out of pity. He decided instead to focus on what he could change. He went to visit Fantine.

He sat at her bedside and prayed for her. The winter light shone pale through the window and slid across the room as the sun rose in the sky. She did not wake from her deep sleep and he was grateful for it for it was a healing sleep. Occasionally she coughed and Madeleine took a damp cloth and wiped the sweat from her brow. She had a fever, and when he had brought her in the nurses had told him there was blood on the cloth she coughed into. His heart had sunk. How good he had thought he’d been and how much secret wickedness he had been doing with his ignorance? Were there others he had neglected to help? Others he had turned a blind eye to? He felt helpless. He left her and went to his offices where he sat for many hours going through the documentation of his workers. He read everything, analysed every firing. He hung his head in his hands. There was no rest. He went to his duties at the mayoral office. By the end of the evening, he was exhausted. 

He stripped his clothes, aching to his bones, and sat in his nightshirt on the edge of his bed. A single candle was lit in his room and he stared at it, and then into the darkest corners of the room. He thought to himself, ‘would it be such a great sin to turn Javert’s love to good? Would it be wrong to use the man’s desire for his approval to teach him to be kind? Would it not be for a greater good? For Javert’s good even?’ He felt this way led to wickedness yet he could not explain why or justify his own refusal. If he were kind to Javert and the side effect of that were that Javert would be kinder would that not be good? His prayers did not bring him an answer. He felt some deep-seated guilt that disturbed his equilibrium yet he found he had made a decision and was simply avoiding acknowledging it.

He sent for Javert and they met on neutral ground, during one of his country walks. He brought his gun merely to give himself something to do with his hands. Javert met him, to his surprise, dressed in his casual workman’s clothes. They stopped front to front about a foot apart and stared at each other nervously. Javert tipped his cap to him and offered a short bow. Madeleine nodded to him,

“Uh,” Madeleine said, “would you walk with me?”

“Yes, Monsieur, it would be my pleasure.”

They began an easy amble side by side. The snow was deep but crisp and the weather was chill but did not bite to the bone. The sunlight was the bright cool light of deep winter and danced on the heavy snow drifts as they fell from the boughs of the trees. They walked in silence for a long time. It was not so uncomfortable. After a while Madeleine felt he could avoid the issue no longer,

“I have been thinking on what you said,” he began, “and I think it would be… well, we would require some rules.”

Javert’s head whipped up and he looked at Madeleine as though he had spied a ghost, 

“Really?” he said, breathless.

“Yes,” Madeleine replied, rubbing the back of his neck. Javert swallowed heavily,

“I am at your command, Monsieur. I will do as you wish. I am your servant in this and all things,” he caught his tongue, flushing deeply and turning his face away.

Madeleine cleared his throat politely but said nothing.

“I suppose,” he eventually began, “the first rule should be for us both to remember that we are not … in… we’re not courting.”

“Of course,” Javert said seriously, “And the second? I know the other evening I-well I worried I overstepped. You would wish me to not kiss your hand again?”

“Well,” Madeleine said, flustered, “well that wasn’t so bad. I could perhaps allow it but there must be rules.”

“Of course!” 

“For example you could not kiss me on- well, you could not kiss me like we’re courting.”

“On the mouth you mean?”

“No. Yes, on there.”

“I could not?”

“No. You would want to?”

“If Monsieur permitted.”

“Well, we shouldn’t, it might confuse you.”

“Yes, most certainly.”

They did not look at each other. They were both ruddy red with more than cold.

“And,” Javert began, perhaps a little shy, “would I be permitted to touch your hand?”

“To touch my hand?”

“That perhaps we might link fingers as we walked?”

“Oh!” Madeleine said, “no, we shouldn’t do that. That might confuse things.”

“Yes, very good.”

“And,” Javert began again, “how might I please you, Monsieur? I would like to please you is all. To do things that would bring you satisfaction and happiness. You might think me bold, Monsieur, but I would be happiest being your dog.”

Madeleine flushed,

“I had almost forgotten that. I am sorry about that; I shouldn’t have degraded you. It was in anger.” 

“It is no harm. It was well deserved. Besides, to be a dog is a noble thing. He knows his duty well and takes pride in fulfilling it, he works hard for his family, is dedicated to their happiness, and what does he ask in return? The meagre scraps from their table and a fireplace to sleep by. Best of all, to lie curled at the bottom of his master's bed. That is a dog's paradise. I would be proud to be a dog, Monsieur.”

Madeleine nodded again, turning his face to watch his boots crunch through the snow,

“Well, I suppose to please me: much of the same. Be kind to people, show mercy. That is what I like. It makes me happy to see others happy.”

Javert was looking at him quietly and he turned his face away, blushing and nodding,

“And what can I do to make you happy, Javert?” Madeleine said, not meeting his eyes,

Javert stumbled over his own feet,

“Well,” he said, “I suppose, well I would be happy like this. I enjoy your company, Monsieur, only your company.”

Madeleine smiled a small smile,

“Yes, I think I can give you that.”

They both smiled a little to themselves shooting shy glances. What a strange sight to see: that stern face of stone softened into a smile. Worn by love into something gentle like a pebble worn by the sea. Valjean found him looking at that smile, marvelling at it: the shy hopefulness of it. He was unaware of his own smile. 

They made a long loop. Madeleine slipped once and Javert caught him firmly by the arm. Perhaps his hand lingered a little long on Madeleine's elbow but neither of them said anything. As M-Sur-M appeared once more Madeleine stopped to smile at his little paradise, the one he hoped to nurture with his own hands.

"You know, Javert, there is something you could do to make me happy."

"Say the word."

Madeleine turned to find himself already held by that black gaze. Strangely, he did not feel afraid.

"It is about the young woman Fantine,"

Javert's face twisted for a moment but the look was rapidly hidden,

"The doctor says she might die," Madeleine said gravely,

"I am sorry, Monsieur."

"She has a daughter in the care of a family elsewhere. They were demanding money from her by letter. I wish you to cast your expert eye over those letters."

Javert scowled,

"You are suspicious of them, Monsieur?"

"Yes. Very."

"You believe she was extorted."

"Yes, and if it is true it is even more vital I retrieve her daughter."

Javert hummed, his eyes sliding from Madeleine's face to the town,

"We will retrieve her," Javert said sternly.

Valjean found himself smiling again,

"Thank you, Inspector."

"It is my job."

They continued their walk together in an amiable silence, something once thought to be impossible. The snow had begun to fall and it lay itself like a blanket over their shoulders. 

“What did happen with that man Bamatabois?”

“Yes,” Javert said, “I have dealt with him. He was arrested. Whether he was charged is in the hands of the courts now. I did not mention it to you because I thought it best to leave you out of it.”

“Why?”

“I thought it best there was no suggestion you used your political power to target him.”

Madeleine laughed,

"Target him?”

“He has been telling people the woman is your lover, Monsieur. Absurd I know. I almost laughed myself at his suggestion. It is well known you are not that kind of man, however, him and his corrupt cronies are not above such rumours and they have been quite unfond of you for some time. It is in fact not the first distasteful suggestion they have made about you. But,” he said, turning to Madeleine as they walked, “you have the power to convert your detractors, Monsieur, for you have taken the blinders from my eyes and have made a friend in old man Fauchelevent.”  

Valjean smiled, tipping his chin into his scarf,

“Thank you, Javert. You know I truly believe your praise. I do not often listen, I find myself, well, I mean that I know what you say is true.”

“Thank you, Monsieur,” Javert replied.

They walked together the rest of the way in silence. Javert walked him to his door and stood on the step waiting for the Mayor to go in. They did not speak even then, only smiled at each other. Javert tipped his cap as the door closed. 

What a marvellous thing! What a marvellous thing love was! The cold could not get at Inspector Javert! He was walking on the snow, not through it. He was warm and comfortable as if he had been walking on a summer’s day. His mind was clear, his eyes were bright. What a marvellous thing! The Mayor would let him love him. The Mayor would accept his devotion. He was in ecstasy. He had thought this reality impossible; he had thought his life would be forevermore cast in grey. They would not hold hands, no, nor would he be able to kiss the Mayor on the mouth- how the thought made him blush! Foolish! But he might kiss his hand. Javert was consumed with these thoughts. 

He was cursed in his life with being a perfectionist and with taking everything, from his habits to his values, to the extreme. He would take this too to the extreme. He set the thought in his mind that if he were to be some kind of lover at forty that he would be the most exceptional lover. That he would put the lovers of myth and fiction to shame! Rather than going home he took himself to the best tailor in town and had himself commissioned a new suit, it would be the finest suit he had ever owned. In the first afternoon of being a lover Javert had put himself in debt.

He then went to another shop where he purchased a fine engraved pen. This put him into further debt. His mind was filled with thoughts of how he might please the Mayor. He thought of all the wonderful gifts he might give him and how nicely the Mayor might blush at them. He thought of all of the acts of charity he might do to raise himself in the Mayor’s eyes. He could see himself now, radiant like a divine angel of justice gleaming in the eyes of the saintly Mayor. His mind was flying wild. He could have skipped home. He would help the Mayor assist this whore in finding her daughter and make such an impression the man would not be able to help but cast him an admiring glance and praise him. He felt very smug indeed. It never passed into his mind to think on how he might finance his fantasies. In this way, he was more like his parents than he believed.

Jean Valjean too was in an uproar. Having closed the door, he leaned against it catching his breath. What a strange thing! What a strange thing to walk beside Monsieur le Inspector Javert and not be afraid! To see that fearsome face gentle, to watch the snow settle and melt on his shoulders as if his body of stone carried the same heat as a normal man. That his trouser legs might get wet at the ankle as a normal man's might and that- that he might desire to kiss Jean Valjean! Not Jean Valjean, that voice reminded him, the infallible Monsieur Madeleine. Still, he placed his hand upon his mouth in shock and then made the sign of the cross over his breast. He felt as though he were in a particularly strange dream. 

He had given his housekeeper the two weeks before Christmas off so he lit his own fire and candles and took himself into the kitchen to prepare his own meal. In the silence and the sanctity of his own home he could take off his jacket and roll up his sleeves without fear of any judgement beyond his own. He had asked his housekeeper to teach him to cook for fear that one day he might not be so privileged to have one and so now he prepared himself a simple stew that could be eaten over several days. It was straightforward, rhythmic work and it emptied his mind for a while from worries. While it was cooking, he wrote a letter and put into the envelope with it the letters he had taken from Fantine’s room. Then he sealed it and peered out of the window to see if he could spy a gamin to deliver the letter. There were none. Very wise of them. He decided after dinner that he would deliver it himself. He felt suddenly shy at the thought of seeing Javert again. He almost did not want to see him. He told himself to stop being a ninny, then he sat and ate his dinner.

Wrapped up tight he dared to go out into what was now a veritable snowstorm. He tucked his shoulders up around his ears and kept his scarf wrapped close around his face. He did not know Javert’s address and so he went to the prefecture. He felt increasingly afraid as he approached but he knew he could not afford his cowardice when the life of a child depended on him.

He kicked the snow off his shoes on the step and pushed the door open allowing a mad bluster of snow in. The building was actually in two parts, a cells and administrative section downstairs and then a narrow staircase which led up to the workspace of the officers. Madeleine trudged up this narrow staircase, letter in hand, loosening his scarf. He found himself being stared at by a cluster of officers as he entered onto the second floor, he froze,

“Hello, Monsieur le Mayor,” a young officer said, hastily brushing his hair from his eyes and straightening his uniform, “How can we assist you? The Inspector isn’t here.”

Madeleine relaxed somewhat,

“It is nothing significant,” he said, “Only a letter I must drop off for him. I can show myself to his office.” 

He smiled at them in a way that he hoped seemed comfortable and crossed the room to open the Inspector’s office. It was empty as expected. This was only the second time he had been in the room and he closed the door behind him so that he could have a moments privacy to look about the room with curious eyes. The Inspector’s desk was suitably tidy and organised, the shelves also. He didn’t know what he had expected, he had seen it before but then he hadn’t exactly been paying attention. Maybe he had thought he would see some secret clue about the man who occupied it. This was foolish, Javert was as Javert was: strict, organised, neat, and punctilious. He placed the letter on the desk, centring it carefully and then opened the door to let himself out. He found himself once again looking at a startled group of officers now clustered together, caught mid-conversation. 

“Gentlemen,” he said, tipping his hat,

“Uh, monsieur,” a man said, stopping him with a touch on the arm as he crossed the room. Madeleine resisted flinching. Madeleine had no reason to flinch.

“Yes,” he said, turning with a smile,

“My name is Fournier I, well, the boys didn’t have the confidence to speak to you so I suppose it has fallen to me.”

He was a serious looking fellow, a little older than the others with a worn face and the awkward facial hair of a man who had never quite accepted that he couldn’t grow a beard,

“Monsieur le Mayor,” Fournier continued, “it’s only the boys wanted to ask you about a pay rise. We’re not being cheeky but police officers really aren’t paid that well and times are lean, if you understand me.”

Madeleine raised his brows,

“Oh,” he said, “You’re not paid well?”

“No, sir,” Fournier said raising and then quickly lowering his brow in an attempt to conceal the expression of doubt,

“I must admit it has been an oversight of mine: I never thought to check what the police were paid; I just assumed the previous Mayor set a good wage.”

“Perhaps it was a good wage twenty years ago, Monsieur le Mayor.”

Madeleine chuckled in disbelief,

“You’re a bold fellow aren’t you, Fournier?”

The man flushed and stood a little straighter,

“I’m sorry, sir,” he said quickly, “I didn’t mean to offend.”

“No offense taken, it’s a good quality. You should question your superiors.”

Fournier raised his brow at him again,

“Monsieur Inspector wouldn’t agree,” Madeleine chuckled,

“No, sir. You could say that, sir.” 

“Well thank you for bringing it to my attention. I’ll dig out the paperwork and set a new rate. In fact, I’ll ask the Inspector when I see him next. I’m sure he’ll have some idea.”

“No offense to the Inspector, Monsieur,” Fournier said, “but I think he’d be happy living on a mouthful of cheese and a thimble's worth of wine. Some of us have families to feed.”

Madeleine laughed again,

“Yes, very true. Well, in that case, discuss amongst yourselves and write me a letter with your recommendations. Or better yet with a list of your expenses so I have an idea of how money needs be allocated. Thank you, gentlemen, good evening. I hope you get home to your families soon.”

“Unlikely,” Fournier said, tipping his hat to the Mayor as he began to descend the stairs, “Inspector Javert likes us all in as long as possible but when he gets back we’ll recommend he lets us go on your advice.”

“Very wise!” Madeleine called as he reached the bottom of the stairs. He felt strangely light. He wrapped his scarf around his face and pulled his hat on low. He would most certainly look at giving out raises. He realised he had no idea how Javert lived.

It was the next day when Inspector Javert made a visit to the Mayor’s office. His quick polite rap made it known exactly who it was behind the door. Madeleine called him.

“Monsieur,” Javert said seriously as he entered, closing the door behind him with a sharp click. He walked to the center of the room and bowed quickly and deeply then rose and stood with his hands clasped behind his back.

“You have something to report, Inspector?”

“Yes, Monsieur, I have looked over those letters and I indeed think their writer is an extortionist. I have come for permission to make a journey to Montfermeil to investigate.”

“I’m afraid I can’t, Javert,” he said, “Not on such short notice.”

“Monsieur, I apologise, I am not asking you to come with me I only want to get some insight into the situation. I do not intend to take hold of the girl at this time.”

“Ah,” Madeleine said, “Yes, I suppose that is wise. When will you go?”

“Today,” Javert said,

“Oh! Very prompt. I should expect no less. Thank you for looking through those letters so promptly.”

“My pleasure, Monsieur,” Javert said, bowing deeply.

Madeleine wondered: should he stand and shake the man’s hand? Should they kiss on the cheek as friends would? What would be the norm for them now in this confusing new situation? As he was want to do he decided not to act.

“Well thank you nonetheless, Javert, I look forward to hearing your insight when you return.”

Javert rose, 

“There is nothing you need of me before I leave, Monsieur?”

“Uh? No, nothing.”

Javert dipped his head again, expression serious,

“Very well, Monsieur, I will see you tomorrow to inform you of my findings.”

He turned, opened the door, and left.

Madeleine sat in stupefied silence. He was thoroughly bemused. He had had an expectation upon seeing Javert that there would be something different between them, that that tenderness and gentleness the man showed during their walks would appear in his work persona, but this was not so. Two men: Inspector Javert, and Javert the loyal dog. Two men: Monsieur Madeleine Mayor, and Jean Valjean criminal and recidivist. 

He tried to put this from his mind. He could do nothing about it. At least, that was what he told himself. Instead, he focussed on what good was being done: the child would be found and returned to her mother. The healing power of a mother’s love would cure Fantine of her ails and a family would be reunited. If it cannot be mine, Valjean thought, I would have it be theirs.

He went for his regular walk, gun on his arm, mind clear and bright as the winter sun. The air was crisp, the gentle crunch of snow the only sound. All the world was deep in sleep. There was peace upon the earth,

"How I would like to see the rabbits in their warren. How sweet they must look cuddled together. Just to glimpse them," he smiled. He stopped, he turned,

"Javert?"

Javert was not with him.

"Oh," he said, abashed. 

He walked on.

 The evening of the next day there was a loud knocking on the door. The snow was coming down in a fierce battering and Madeleine was already wrapped in a thick blanket, seated by the fire. He rushed to answer the door. Standing in the doorway, the snow soaked through his clothes was Inspector Javert. He took off his hat and a large volume of snow fell on the step.

“Come in!” Valjean cried, “My god! You are soaked through!” 

“Yes,” Javert said as he was hustled inside and towards the fire.

“What are you doing out this time of night?” 

Javert coughed into his fist as Valjean slipped his other arm from his wet coat,

“Come, sit by the fire,” he said, “take off your boots, take off your undercoat. Lay them out on over a chair- I will get one from the kitchen.”

Javert coughed into his fist again as he sat himself down on the floor to pull off his boots. Madeleine re-entered bringing two chairs from the kitchen and a towel. He placed the chairs a little way from the fire and laid the Inspector’s clothes over the backs to dry.

“What are you doing on the floor?” he said, “You can sit on the couch.”

“I’d rather not,” Javert answered, “I’m very wet.”

“It feels wrong you sitting on the floor while I sit on the couch, I will sit with you.”

“I’d rather you didn’t, I’ve noticed you have a limp. Sit on the couch. A dog likes to sit on the floor by the fire.”

Madeleine sighed, handed Javert the towel and seated himself on the couch. He leaned forward, elbows on his knees. Javert began drying his short hair as he spoke,

“I stayed at the Thernadier’s inn, one Sergeant de Waterloo, in Montfermeil. It was an awful place, I took a set of old clothes to wear for my stay and I’m glad for it: I burnt them all after. I’ve been bitten all over by lice and bed bugs. Do not fear, I am clean. I spent a long time in the prefecture in Montfermeil picking every little creature from my skin and hair. Vile. I cannot say for certain I saw the girl Cosette but if she is who I believe her to be then yes, indeed, they are treating her terribly. But that is not all: they are thieves and conmen for certain. There are two other children there but they are treated well so I assume they belong to the Thernadier family. I want to get some paperwork together before we go so that I might arrest them for the acts of petty theft, the extortion and the con-artistry. It will make the removal of the girl easier, that is certain.”

 Madeleine nodded thoughtfully,

“Other children…” he said, “And you wish to arrest the parents?”

Javert paused,

“Don’t be merciful, Monsieur. These are wicked individuals. You will see for yourself how wicked when you cast your eyes upon the whores child-” he flushed, eyes widening, “I mean- I meant Fantine’s child.”

Madeleine raised a brow at him and gave him a frown but said nothing. He sighed, then he rose,

“Let me make you some hot tea.”

“It’s not necessary, really.”

“Let me.”

Javert nodded.

Madeleine took himself into the kitchen to heat the kettle. His mind was working. He was deeply concerned. To take the girl was one thing, to place her with her mother was right. To protect people from conmen and criminals, that too was right, but to take parents from their children? To tear apart a family? This he struggled with. He was angry on Fantine’s behalf that her trust and child should have been abused but he could not bear the thought of leaving two children alone in the world. He made the tea in a brooding silence and then delivered it to Javert who had been sitting in a nervous silence of his own.

As he handed Javert the cup the man said,

“Have I offended you, Monsieur?”

Madeleine started,

“Whatever do you mean?”

“The way I spoke of the woman,”

“Oh,” he said, “no, it’s alright. You are doing much for her. But I would rather you treated her with more respect, and do not call her as such around her daughter.” 

“No,” he said.

They sat in a comfortable silence drinking their tea. 

“Have you eaten?” Madeleine asked,

“Yes.”

Eventually, Javert had finished his tea and he rose awkwardly,

“I should go, Monsieur. I have kept you busy too long and too late into the night.”

“It’s alright,” Madeleine said also rising, “but it is so late and so dark and cold. Your clothes are still wet. Why don’t you stay here?”

Javert flushed,

“I-I couldn’t.”

“I do not have a spare room but you are welcome to sleep on the couch and I will get you some blankets. You can keep the fire low or whatever you wish.”

“That would be fine,” Javert answered, “You are very generous, Monsieur.” 

“It is nothing, I would rather give you a bed but this is a small premises. I did not want to live at the Mayoral address, I know it is proper but- well- it was far too rich for my blood. Far too large. A property like that is lonely for a single man as I. I say too much, I will go and retrieve your blankets.”

He left Javert to stare at the short couch wondering how best to fit himself and hurried upstairs to fetch his warmest blankets. He had several which were of a fine thick wool, gifts from factory owners seeking financial support. He gathered them up and two pillows and a candle and then returned downstairs to find the long man attempting to lie himself out on the sofa, his legs hanging over the end.

“Oh,” Javert said getting up with difficulty, “forgive me.”

“Don’t be foolish, here,” he handed him the blankets, pillow and candle, “Would you like me to bring you a little table over?”

“No, no, this is well enough.”

They stood before each other in an awkward silence.

“So, how long do you think it will be for you to do your paperwork?”

Javert looked confused for a moment and then he said,

“Oh, yes, perhaps two days. I will expedite it but will want to be careful, I want to leave no loopholes they might exploit.” 

“Of course,” Madeleine said, “of course. Very correct.”

They stood again looking at each other.

“You need a chamber pot,” Madeleine said.

“I went before I came.”

“No, I mean for in the night.”

“Oh!”

“I will get you one.”

“Apologies.”

Madeleine hurried again up the stairs and retrieved a spare chamber pot bringing it down shyly. 

“Well,” he said as he handed it over, “goodnight. I wake early so will see you in the morning.”

“Goodnight, Monsieur,” Javert replied, red high on his cheeks. He bowed shortly and Madeleine dipped his head awkwardly in reply, then took himself quickly into the kitchen to extinguish the candles and the fire. He bobbed his head again to Javert who had wrapped himself in the blankets like a caterpillar in its cocoon, just his legs and head sticking from either end. Javert nodded back and then Madeleine was ascending the stairs as quickly as he could, red-faced and shy.  

A silly thing but to think of it: the wolf asleep in his living room! What a terrifying thought! He slept in his shirt and trousers for fear the man might sneak in to reveal him; to reveal his scars to the world, the markers of his deceit. He felt guilty at harbouring such fear of the man who had been nothing but respectful this past month, who had asserted his devotion and loyalty, but habits were hard to break and deeply ingrained. 

In the morning they greeted each other with a new level of awkwardness that neither of them had thought possible. Javert’s hair was sticking up at all angles, his half-untucked shirt rumpled, his trouser leg climbing up his leg on his left side. He was veritably human. He attempted to escape before Madeleine made him breakfast but failed and was escorted into the kitchen where he had coffee and eggs on toast. Over the meal Madeleine broached the topic of pay,

“I have been looking over the prefecture's expenses. I do not feel that the officer's pay has grown in touch with the economy.”

Javert choked on his coffee,

“Really, Monsieur le Mayor,” he said gruffly, “there is no need to concern yourself. A man does not do the job for reward but out of a sense of solemn duty towards society.”

“Well perhaps that is how you see it,” Madeleine said, hiding his smile behind his cup, “but officers must be fed and housed if we are to expect them to do their job.”

“Still, there is no need. In fact, it might be perceived as a bribe.”

Madeleine outright laughed at that,

“Bribing the entire police department! What a powerful and wealthy man I would have to be! And to have the nerve to take from the government money to do so! I would truly be a scoundrel. In fact, if I had such gall I might expect to be respected for it!”

Javert flushed and ducked his head to eat his egg in silence,

“Oh, come,” Madeleine said, “I only joke.”

“I know,” he said. 

Madeleine smiled at him. He said,

“I will give you a comb to comb your hair before you leave.”

Then he rose, placed his plate and cup on the side to be washed and went upstairs to do just that.

When Javert left, Madeleine went to see Fantine. He asked she be allowed to sober from the medication so he might speak with her. She was improving somewhat but it was hard to tell if it was a flash of light before the encroach of darkness or the rising of a new sun. She woke slowly, drifting from the heavy drug-induced sleep. He placed his hand upon hers (it burned hot) and offered her a gentle smile, she smiled in return. 

“Hello,” she said weakly,

“Hello, Madame,” he said, “I have some good news.”

She smiled blearily and then suddenly her eyes widened,

“My Cosette!” she cried, trying to sit up, “Oh, she is here!” 

“Not yet!” he cried trying to keep her from hurting herself with gentle hands, “but soon!” He said, “Very soon! In two days I will be collecting her for you myself. She will be in your arms soon!”

“My Cosette,” she sighed, resting back into her pillow, “my angel.”

“Yes,” he said, “rest now. Rest. You will be strong for when she comes.”

Her eyes glazed over and then slowly slid closed. He smiled sadly at her. 

The blurred image of his sister appeared in his mind. She had dark hair like him, he remembered. She was a sturdy woman, not like Fantine, but he wondered if she had the same delirious look when she died. He placed his hand over his face and pinched his eyes to hold the tears back. For almost thirty years he had believed his sister, nephews and nieces dead. If the power and money of a mayor could not find them it was the only conclusion he could reach. In a way, it was easier to grieve after he had come to accept it as reality. No more holding out hope. Jean Valjean was truly alone in the world, and in a way, it made it easier for him to die and Madeleine to live. Madeleine did not grieve a lost family. He had been born alone and lived alone without care. It was Valjean who hurt. It was Valjean who hurt now. He wanted to return to Fantine what he could never have. Was that not the essence of generosity? Would that be enough to finally make him feel worthy of forgiveness? He could not fail Fantine. But if to bring Cosette to her family meant to destroy the Thernadier family would he be strong enough to do it? Or would he be a coward and allow Javert to commit the sin in his place, his tool to avoid taking on the burden of guilt? All of these thoughts drew the tears from his eyes and he wiped them away with the back of his sleeve. He would pray again tonight and the night after and if he deserved it God would offer him guidance. 

 

It's Valvert Week eternally in my heart

Monsieur Madeleine did not feel any more at ease two days following. He sat in the carriage across from Inspector Javert, brows drawn and lips pulled down in a look of worry. He did not lay his eyes upon the man who sat across from him but kept them instead on the landscape outside, unseeing. His mind was a cacophony of guilt and fear. He believed himself to be facing a monumental challenge, one that he might fail in the eyes of God. He believed himself to have been trying and failing to do good and now he saw a chance to right a wrong but also the risk that he might do a great evil. He saw ahead of him two paths and felt behind him Javert who might follow him, unquestioningly, into either goodness or damnation. This was an immense burden. It was for this reason he could not face the man. 

Javert himself was also discontented. The Mayor had treated him coldly this morning when they had met and had ignored him since in the carriage ride. He had attempted conversation twice and been rebuffed. His mind filled the silence with possibilities. He thought he might have, unknowingly, offended but despite strict analysis of their recent conversations could find no reason why. He thought the Mayor might be expecting him to fail, expecting him to be unkind to the whore's daughter or cruel to the whore. He was hurt by this but did not believe the Mayor would keep those thoughts secret. He thought perhaps that the man had finally met a woman he desired to form a relationship with and had realised what a burden Javert would be. That he was musing on how best to send him away. This hurt him terribly and filled him with the agonising fires of jealousy. He simply did not have enough data to confirm or refute this suspicion. He wished the Mayor might only glance at him kindly and reassure him. He did not. 

The arrival in Montfermeil seemed to draw the Mayor from his reverie and he finally said,

“Truthfully: I am afraid.”

Javert frowned, as if doing so would improve the working of his brain,

“Of what?”

“That I might fail.”

Javert’s frown deepened,

“There is no fail state,” he said, “We shall retrieve the girl and return her home.”

Then he climbed out of the carriage and held out his hand to help the Mayor down. The Mayor stared at him for a moment in a contemplative silence and then took his hand and allowed himself to be assisted to the street.

They had parked across the street from the inn. Javert had wanted to park around the corner to give them the element of surprise but Madeleine had been afraid they might need to make a quick escape,

“You are a magistrate, Monsieur,” Javert had said, disbelieving, but as we know Jean Valjean had reason to be fearful and was in good habit of running away.

Their arrival caused an excess of excitement for the stall holders who were parked up outside the inn and they were accosted by suggestions that they purchase dolls for their nieces, or try the feel of the finest fabrics, or the scent of exotic perfumes. All exaggerations. Javert turned them away with a curl of his lip and a snarl.  

They entered and were immediately accosted by a new salesman: the gentleman Thernadier. His keen eyes spotted the Mayor from well across the room, through a haze of drunken patrons and the general malaise of pipe smoke and the smoke of a small fire that was boil a pot on a stove. He slid like a ferret through the sweating bodies, eyes twinkling with lust for gold.

“Monsieur!” he said, and then he spied the good Inspector, now in full attire, and he subdued himself, “And Monsieur le Inspector. Why good Inspector, if I had known you were a man of the law I would have terfed out some other patron and given you a superior room. Out of respect,” he bowed with a flourish,

“What can I do for you fine gentlemen? Wife!” he cried with the high petulant shrillness of a woman, “Wife! Get these fine gentlemen a drink on the house and a table, my dear! A clean one!”

His wife could not be described as having anything womanish about her, besides the thick dark coal that outlined her eyes and her voluminous breasts which spilled over her corset. She lifted two small men from their seats by the fire and deposited them a way away on the floor as if she were some wrestler in a circus.

“Here you are, Monsieurs, kindly gentlemen, two seats for you,” and she wiped at the tabletop and then the chairs with a rag that made no attempt at cleanliness.

“What can we do for you?” the Thernadier man continued as he harried them towards their seats, “What can our humble business offer that is worthy of such respectable patrons?”

Javert had set on his face an undisguised look of disgust. His wide nose and curling lip creased with loathing. He had the look of snarling dog about him, flashing teeth and gum,

“You can show us the girl you have cleaning for you,” he said.

“The girl?” The Thernadier man said, laying a hand upon his breast. He moved it to his chin, casting his eyes up as if in thought,

“Why, good Inspector,” he said, “I am not sure I understand what you are asking! It is my wife herself, my beautiful madame, who does all the work around here. She’s an old workhorse, my wife, she does me proud. She could have had a respectable man no doubt, a real beauty she was when young, but here she is with me-”

“Enough!” Javert barked, “I have no interest in small talk. My ears are closed to the likes of you. Bring me the girl. The blonde creature you keep in rags. Bring her to me.”

The Thernadier man’s face closed over for a moment. There was a flinty glint of vitriol that struck across it and then he smiled once more. 

“If that’s what please you, Monsieurs,” he said. Then he turned and walked towards aa door that no doubt led to the living quarters. The Mayor shifted in his seat, his hands clenching and unclenching. The Thernadier woman glowered at Javert with unconcealed spite and he stared back, undaunted. The man returned bringing with him three girls, all in dresses, one blonde and two dark-haired like the Thernadier man. The girl in the middle, the blonde-haired girl has clearly been hastily washed and brushed. Her hair has tightly knotted in places, there is dirt in the creases of her face. Creases that should not be on the face of a young child. Creases that spoke of pain and sorrow. Javert’s eyes flicked to the Mayor’s face, indeed he saw pain and grief there, mirrored. 

“This one is not like the others,” the Mayor said, voice quiet and rough,

“Yes, Monsieur, she is our beloved but sadly not our daughter. What a sweet creature she is, our little lark. What a blessing she was when she came to stay with us. Oh, but how sad it is: her mother has abandoned her! Once she sent us money for our upkeep but she has not sent us a penny in weeks. What a mother! What creature to abandon such a sweetling!”

“Abandoned,” Javert said imperiously, “More like broken by your long extortion!”

The Mayor placed his hand upon Javert’s arm as the Thernadier man covered the little girl ears with his hands, a look of horror upon his face,

“Monsieur!” He cried, “What a thing to say!”

“One moment, good innkeeper,” The Mayor said seriously, voice still low, “My companion and I will step outside.”

He rose, bowed shortly and then went outside, trusting Javert would follow. Javert did.

They walked some distance from the inn and the cloying salesmen. They stopped on the opposite side of the street. The Mayor turned to Javert,

“You are pushing too hard!” He said, “See how the girl cringes in fear!”

“Yes!” Javert says, “So you see the wickedness of these people! And now you bring me away so that they may beat her in peace!”

The Mayor’s eyes closed in pain and Javert swallowed his anger,

“Monsieur,” he said lowly, “I do not mean to offend. You are trending towards mercy again, Monsieur, when it is not deserved. What is it that really ails you?”

The Mayor bowed his head,

“Javert, did you see? They have daughters. Just so young. One barely a babe.”

“Monsieur,” Javert growled, “What are you saying?”

The Mayor looked up at him, eyes wet with shame,

“Please, Javert?”

“You cannot seriously be suggesting-?”

“Javert, please.”

“No,” Javert said, “You ask too much! You go too far! You would ask me to go against my very morality? My very sense of right? You would have me turn a blind eye and let these wicked creatures go on committing theft, extorting the vulnerable, abusing the meek? You would have that?”

“Javert,” the Mayor said, “I am not asking you to turn a blind eye, only not break up a family-”

“And you did not think to speak to me of this before! You thought to ambush me! To put me on the spot!”

“No-”

“Or was that what you brooded on in the carriage? How you might persuade me?”

“Javert,” The Mayor said sternly, “Please. I know I ask a lot from you-”

“You have no idea how much you ask of me. If you knew you would not ask.”

The Mayor bowed his head in shame, eyes on the floor,

“I know,” he said solemnly, “I am wronging you. But, still, I must ask this of you. I cannot bear it on my soul to tear children from their parents. Lord forgive me, but trust in this, Javert, if I do wrong he will see me punished.”

Javert ground his teeth, fists clenched,

“You should not think I would want that for you.”

He dipped his head, chin pushed into his chest.

“You would have this of me?” he said, “You would test me. Say nothing. I will do it.”

The Mayor looked up; Javert did not meet his eye, 

“Javert-”

“Say nothing.”

The Mayor swallowed heavily and nodded. He crossed back across the road and stopped outside the inn with Javert at his heel. He looked at a large doll that stood on a salesman’s cart.

“How much?” He said, 

“Why, Monsieur-”

Javert listened no longer. His mind was empty but for a heavy grey cloud. He was in that moment committing the greatest sin towards himself imaginable. He was betraying what was right. He was betraying what was just. He was betraying the Law. Something in him had been struck down. He could have wept. A vein of bitterness ran deeply in him and cut through that river of love. He asked himself if it would kill his love altogether. To some degree he hated the man who made him do this. At the same time, he knew he loved him too completely to deny him.

The Thernadier couple were inside waiting, the man seated by the bar and the woman cleaning a cup as if she were preparing it as a projectile. Javert reinstated his fearsome persona. The girl with the yellow hair was curled up under a chair, trembling. The Mayor leant down near her, not so close as if to crowd her and he held out the doll,

“I have something for you,” he said. The girl stared at him wide-eyed and wild. Javert kept his eyes on the Thernadier. 

“We will be taking the girl,” Javert said, “and reuniting her with her mother.”

The Thernadier man rose, an outcry on his lips,

“Speak nothing,” Javert said, “Know I have seen much here. You should be grateful to no longer bear the financial burden.”

“Burden! She is our angel-”

“Enough!” Javert said, “Make not a mockery of love.”

The girl had taken the doll with trembling hands. She held it before her eyes, mute with astonishment then she drew it to her with a desperate love, cradling it as if it were her babe. The Mayor smiled softly at her. The Thernadier woman looked fiercely at Javert. They met eye to eye. She looked for a moment as though she might batter him and then she turned her back and with a huff said,

“Let him take her!”

“Wife!” The Thernadier man said but then he was caught in the Inspector’s burning gaze and his mouth snapped shut. 

The Mayor held out his hand to the little girl and she tentatively took it, crawling from her place to stand by his side. Now it was clear her skirt was too short, no doubt not her own, and her knees and hands were filthy dirty. Without concern for the filth of her, the Mayor lifted her in his arms and to his chest.

“Let us take you home,” he said, “Your mother has been so excited to see you.”

“My mother?” the little girl squeaked,

“Yes, your mother.”

The girl seemed to not know what to say to that. She both looked amazed and disbelieving, as though she had forgotten she had ever had a mother and thought the woman of her memories a dream. The Mayor turned his face from her to the Thernadier couple and said,

“Good day.”

He left with the girl and the doll. Javert chewed on his tongue. Every inch of him trembled with restraint. He was filled with a violent vitriol, with a desire to pounce and rip, not so unlike a guard dog sighting a wolf. After a moment he turned and with jerky mechanical steps he too left the inn.

They went together to the carriage and Madeleine held the girl as she fearfully but with tremendous awe petted the horse’s nose. Then he carried her in and sat her beside him on the seat. She climbed into his lap, holding the doll in her lap as she began to mime brushing its hair.

Inspector Javert climbed in after and sat opposite them, stony-faced. Madeleine risked a glance at him and found himself met with the face of the prison guard. His look flinched away. He focussed on brushing the little girl’s hair with his fingers as she brushed the doll. The carriage rattled over the cobblestones and was soon leaving the ill-fated town of Montfermeil. 

Javert could not look away from the man and yet he could not bear to look at the man who had wounded him so deeply. Who had stabbed him in the gut and twisted the knife. How could this man wound him? This man who now, with those bloodied hands, touch the girl so tenderly. Was this to be the life of Inspector Javert? Was he to be chipped away, piece by piece until he remained but a shallow shell of a man. No morality, no independence, no faith in his beliefs. No honour or dignity. Yet, for all his pain when he watched the gentle, sad smile that lited the corners of the Mayor’s mouth, a smile that was reserved for the child who did not even see it (so invested was she in her doll.) How could this sight of this man tending the waif soothe him even as it hurt him? How could this man be both his master and his torturer? And what would this man ask of him in the future? He could not bear to look any longer, he bowed his head in defeat.

They arrived in M-Sur-M having not spoken a word. The Mayor took the girl to his home. When his housekeeper opened the door she was already prepared.

“Here she is,” she said, “Our special guest. I have drawn a warm bath for her, monsieur, and laid out some nightwear and a comb.”

The Mayor blinked,

“Oh!” He said, “thank you, yes. And food-”

“Already for her,” she said, “I have been a grandmother twice over. She will have a warm meal in her belly and even a cup of cocoa after her bath. How does that sound?” she said addressing the girl.

The girl nodded her head, a small, shy nod. The Mayor went to out her down and she clasped at him desperately,

“Now,” the Mayor said gently, “Is not your baby hungry? Does she not want cocoa?”

The girl looked at him dourly, then she nodded,

“Yes,” she said.

“Then doesn’t she need you to bathe and wash your nice hair? It will be all combed and tidy and then the two of you can eat and have your sweet drink.”

The girl looked at him,

“And you will come back?” she said.

Javert’s lips pursed. He could not see the Mayor’s face but the long silence that stretched on spoke volumes,

“Yes,” the Mayor said, “I will come back. And when I do, I will bring you a dress pretty for a princess. Then you can see your mother.”

The girl released him and dutifully took the housekeeper’s hand. The woman smiled at the Mayor and then slowly began to lead the girl away.  The little thing looked back over her shoulder, then she turned away and went on.

The broad shoulders sagged. Javert said nothing. The Mayor turned to him but did not look in his eye,

“Your time is yours if you want it, Javert,” he said.

“I would speak with you.”

“Later.”

Javert said nothing. He nodded. He turned and left. 

Madeleine watched him go. It felt as though there were a line attached to the man, anchored in Valjean’s chest and, as he walked away, he ripped it free. Valjean bowed his head. He brought a hand to his face and covered his eyes. He was too tired to weep. He wished that God might give him a sign. 

He took himself to a clothes shop and bought a series of dresses in varying sizes. He could not be sure how big the girl was or even how old she was. He bought her hair ties, he bought her a bracelet, he bought her another doll, he bought her three pairs of shoes in different sizes. He took them all back to his home. 

By the time he arrived the girl was clean and her hair had been combed out down her back. It was long and sickly thin, as was she. The nightclothes hung on her and he immediately thought, the clothes I have bought are too big.

He could do nothing about it. The ladies were sitting at the kitchen table and drinking cocoa together, all three of them for the doll also had a little cup in front of her and the girl was encouraging her to drink in a motherly fashion. The housekeeper saw him enter and smiled at him encouraging,

“I am glad to see you all enjoying your cocoa,” he said. The girl started and then jumped down from the chair and ran to him, throwing her arms as best she could around his legs,

“Père Noël!” she cried, and she dug her face against the fabric of his trousers. He crouched down and embraced her,

“Oh,” he said gently, “No, my name is Madeleine.”

She looked up at him tearfully,

“My name is Cosette,” she whispered.

He smiled,

“It is a pleasure to meet you, Cosette. Your mother has told me all about you.”

She stepped back at that, wringing her hands in her nightdress,

“My mother,” she said.

“Yes,” he answered, “Are you excited to see her?”

She did not answer him.

“I have bought you some new dresses," he said, "and some other things,” and he handed her the bag. It was heavy for her little arms. 

“Take it upstairs and lay them all out on the bed and you can look through them and choose what you wish.”

The girl nodded solemnly, as if she had been handed a great burden to bear. Then she turned to the housekeeper and waited as the old lady rose and met her. They shared the weight of the bag and went upstairs together.

Madeleine sat in the kitchen. It seemed suddenly empty. He had never imagined this house with a child in it. With the sound of small footsteps echoing in the halls. His heart ached suddenly. He thought about how soon that sound would go silent. How could someone miss something they had had such a short time? He rose when the ladies came downstairs.

“My,” he said, “Who is this young lady in my house?”

The girl was still thin and hollow-eyed, and indeed the smallest of the dresses was a little too big but she had tidied up nicely, with her hair in a bun and her pink dress, and was smiling with a shy happiness. She stopped at the bottom of the stairs and curtsied. Madeleine held out his hand for her,

“Might I, Madame?”

She curtsied again and then took his hand, her doll clutched to her chest with the other. He helped her up into the carriage and they went on their way to the hospital.

Madeleine did not expect to see Inspector Javert again that day and his eyes widened as he caught sight of the tall black figure standing at the door of Fantine’s room. The Inspector turned and saw him, meeting his eyes with a hardness and coldness to his look. He gave a shallow bow,

“Monsieur,” he said, “And who is this? I thought you were bringing the daughter? This is a princess.”

Madeleine looked down; the girl shone with happiness. She curtsied,

“It’s me Cosette,” she said in a small voice.

“Madame,” Javert replied, tipping his tall hat, “Let me show you in.”

He opened the door for them.

Madeleine tried to meet his eye again as he passed but the man did not look at him. He focussed instead on Fantine. The little girl had frozen as she entered the room. Struck dumb, paralysed by the sight of the creature in the bed. She turned, staggered backwards and clutched at Madeleine’s leg. He placed a soothing hand upon her head,

“She is your mother.”

The little girl shook her head.

“She is sick,” Madeleine said, “but she is your mother.”

When she did not move forward Madeleine shot the doctor with a concerned look. The doctor frowned but said nothing. Madeleine felt alone. He pried the girl’s hands from his leg and took them in his,

“Come, Cosette, let’s see her together.”

He led the girl by her hands to the side of the bed. Fantine was awake but drowsy,

“Fantine,” he said softly, “Fantine. See who has come to see you.” 

Fantine’s eyes opened slowly and looked about the room. She looked at the child at his side for a long moment, her brow creasing and then she said,

“Cosette?”

Cosette pulled at Madeleine’s hands, attempting to press into his legs again as the pale, skeletal figure rose on the bed like a vampire rising from its coffin.

“Cosette!” Fantine cried, “My Cosette!”

She threw out her hands for her and Cosette pulled herself free of Madeleine’s grip and fled to the door straight into Javert’s claws. He caught her little arm with one large, cage-like hand and dropped before her in a squat,

“When I was a little boy, my mother was very sick,” his voice was quiet and very serious, “and for a long time I did not recognise her at all. I was afraid of her. I thought: there is a creature of disease. If I touch it I will become sick.”

The little girl nodded,

“It is frightening,” he said, “but we cannot always run away from the things we fear.”

She looked down solemnly. He released her arm and she trudged back to Madeleine’s side. As Javert had been speaking Fantine had been crying,

“Why does she run from me! Oh, my Cosette! She doesn’t love me!” 

The nurses had been calming her frantically. Cosette came to stand before Madeleine with her head bowed. 

“Your mother…” Madeleine said, “she would like to hold you. See how she cries for you? She has been weeping to see you. I know it has been a long time…”

“She would like to hold you as you hold your baby,” he said motioning to her doll. 

Cosette looked down at her doll with a serious expression and then turned to the bed where her mother wept terribly. She beckoned Madeleine to lean down,

“I cannot reach,” she whispered into his ear.

He nodded and lifted her onto her bed. Putting aside her doll she lay herself over her mother and embraced her, face serious and eyes sad. Fantine turned to her and clutched at her, crying desperately into her shoulder. They clung to each other. 

Madeleine swallowed heavily. He looked to Javert and found the man’s back turned, he was walking down the stairs. Madeleine looked to the doctor who nodded his approval that he might leave. He also made his exit.

“Javert!” he called, stepping out into the street. Javert was already on the opposite side of the road. He stopped on the spot and bowed his head. Madeleine jogged across the road and clutched at his sleeve,

“Javert…” he said, “Come, speak with me. Let me apologise.”

Javert did not look at him. He nodded. 

There seemed too much difference between them to speak in Madeleine’s home. They went instead to the Mayoral office. It was empty. It was a Sunday. 

The door closed with a thud. Javert stood in the center of the room head bowed, eyes on the floor. 

Madeleine looked at him and then walked across the room and stood beside his desk, turned towards Javert, his head also bowed. They stood in silence for some time they spoke simultaneously,

“I want to apologise-”

“Before you speak-”

Madeleine said quickly,

“You speak, Javert, I will listen.”

Javert nodded but did not look up.

“You told me once you were a liar. I said it was untrue. Or perhaps I said I did not care. I could not name something you lied about. I think you were about to lie then.”

He looked up with hard, hot eyes,

“You are not sorry, Monsieur. You have told me in all our conversations that my beliefs and values were foolish to you, that I was ignorant, that I am unwise. I didn’t realise that you meant it.”

“Javert-”

“But you have shown it with your actions. You made me do something today that wounded me, Monsieur, wounded me deeply. I hate you, Monsieur,”

Valjean paled,

“I hate you but worst of all I love you also. This is the second time you have wounded me. You have told me how you respect me, how you do not want to hurt me and yet you hurt me without care.”

“You cannot expect me to go against what my heart demands, Javert,” he said, bold in voice and yet the words rang weak.

“Your heart cries out, Monsieur, but it does not cry out to defend mine. I have told you I am loyal. I have tried to show you with my actions. How many more times will you test me? How much longer must I make up for my offense? How many pieces of me must you take before you will be satisfied that I am yours and yours alone? Surely you must see what I am willing to give up for you. Today I have betrayed everything I believe in. I will live with this my whole life. For you. Is it enough? I must know. If I am to continue loving you, I must know if you intend to keep treating me this way. Be honest with me, do not lie and then hurt me again. Tell me you will hurt me again and I will hate you but my love for you will not die. But do not tell me you will never hurt me again; I could not bear you to lie.”

Madeleine dropped his head into his hands,

“I am so sorry, Javert. I am so sorry. You are right.”

Javert nodded. His hands were balled into fists at his side.

“I am so sorry, Javert. I have been so selfish.”

“Yes.”

“I could not bear to see those children hurt. I cannot explain it to you-”

“Then you should have spoken to me!” Javert snarled, “You should have trusted in me and I would have helped you! We could have gone with a plan! I would have made possible anything you wished!”

Madeleine shook his head,

“I know.”

He looked up red-eyed. They stared at each other and then Valjean went to him and brought up his hands to cup those coarse, bristled cheeks,

“Javert,” he said, “Oh, Javert,”

Javert shook his head,

“You are a better man than I,” Valjean murmured, thumbs caressing those bristles, “If you cannot forgive me I would have you love another. I would not keep you and keep hurting you. I truly mean it. It is the truth.”

Javert shook his head,

“With all the anger and hurt I have felt today I still have not stopped loving you.”

Valjean leaned up and pressed a desperate kiss to his cheek. Javert stiffened. When Valjean drew back the man looked down at him, dark eyes wide and disbelieving. They looked at each other. Something strange was in the air between them. Some strange thread had curled between their hearts. Something tender and secret that had begun its knot when Javert had shown such gentleness to a fearful child. Valjean’s hands guided Javert’s head down as it bowed to press a kiss to Valjean’s cheek. Javert’s lips puffed hot breath over Valjean’s face as it moved,

“Here?” he whispered,

“Yes.”

He pressed a kiss there and moved again to Valjean’s ear,

“Here?”

“Yes.”

He pressed a kiss to the lobe of his ear and moved down to his jaw,

“Here?”

“Yes.” 

He kissed there too and then nosed to press a kiss beneath his ear. Valjean gasped. His hands had come to cling to Javert’s back without his knowing and Javert’s arms had wrapped around him, trapping him in the tiger’s cage. They held each other, chest to chest. Javert’s nose brushed against Valjean’s own as he turned his face. They breathed against each other’s lips,

“I will be worthy of your love,” Valjean whispered,

“You have always been worthy.”

Valjean reached up and tenderly carded his fingers through Javert’s thick dark hair; cupped the back of his head. They rested forehead to forehead. 

They stood there together, wrapped in each other’s arms. What more was there in the world? 

Valjean’s eyes tread gentle steps over the topography of Javert’s face. Something in it had been transformed. It was fearsome yes, and yet majestic like the tiger. It was rugged and masculine, it was stern yet there was gentleness there. There were long dark eyelashes that sat upon stone-carved cheeks; there was a strong jaw, a heroic chin, and a distinction in the nose with its wide nostrils. When Javert’s eyes opened they met his own and they gazed at each other. Something in Valjean cracked open. It was like the great splitting of ice or perhaps it was the bursting open of a seed pod ready for new growth. His heart which had been cold turned itself to the sun of Javert’s love and welcomed its embrace. He did not know it but in him began to grow the seed of love. He felt only, as he gazed into those eyes, a great feeling of filling up as though he might burst and a deep well of tenderness that opened in him. In that moment, Jean Valjean experienced the blinding transformation of love for a second time.

 

 


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


They held each other, breathing slow deep breaths, as Javert pressed kisses down Valjean’s neck to the collar of his shirt and then back up to beneath his ear. Valjean sighed with every press of lips, with every clench of Javert’s arms around him pulling him closer. His own arms moved as his hands slid down and then back up Javert’s back. The man was thinner than Valjean had realised, disguised by the volume of his clothes. He slid his hands round to stroke down his flanks finding his ribs bony beneath his shirt, waist small and hips narrow. Javert grunted against his ear and Valjean became shockingly aware of something hard and firm pressing against his stomach. He drew back, pulling out of Javert’s arms and looked down with wide eyes. Javert stared at his face, confused and fearful of the rejection, and then very slowly his gaze dropped and he flushed a deep dreadful red. Indeed, there straining against his trousers was something quite shameful. Javert swallowed heavily,

“Monsieur,” he croaked, “I am so sorry. I did not mean- it was not intentional- I am not trying to persuade you to act in anyway. I am so sorry.”

Valjean stared at it in silence. He had never seen one from this angle. He had not seen his own like that since… almost since he had been a boy. He had never had that desire to perform carnal acts upon himself, he had never sought out a lover or romantic partner. He had perhaps kissed a girl once purely out of the necessity of youth and its symbolic rituals. It had never occurred to him he might find men attractive for he had never looked upon a man lustfully. In Toulon any desire that might have existed was repressed further beneath layers of trauma. He looked at Javert’s erection now as if he had never seen a penis in his life. 

Javert stared at him in mute fear, swallowing, lips pressed in a thin anxious line. He had the look of a nervous dog caught in the act of stealing a cooked chicken. 

“I will leave,” Javert whispered, voice lilting with nervous hope.

“No,” Valjean whispered. He looked up and met Javert’s fearful gaze, “You would have me like that?” 

Javert nodded.

“You have been so kind,” Valjean whispered, “You have done so much.”

“I only want to please you,” Javert whispered.

“I would please you,” Valjean answered. He reached out his hand tentatively and it hung in the air between them. Javert stared at it, eyes boggling.

“Would it be okay?” Valjean whispered,

“Yes,” Javert exhaled.

Valjean’s hand crept the last distance and laid upon him with a feather light touch. Javert’s gasp was desperate. 

“Did I hurt you?”

“No-” Javert gasped, swallowing, “No. Please,”

Valjean pressed on his a little more firmly and Javert’s jaw clenched. He bowed his head and closed his eyes,

“Thank you,” he growled. 

Now Valjean swallowed nervously. It was not entirely an unpleasant feeling, the firm heat of Javert in his hand but he did not know what to do with it or if he wanted to do anything with it at all. For lack of knowing what better to do he focussed on feeling it through the trouser fabric, moving his hand and fingers. It seemed to grow a little under his touch and that was a strange feeling. Javert’s breath shuddered and he trembled, hands clenched by his sides. Valjean’s fingers found the head and circled it gently and the man positively whined. 

“Are you alright?” Valjean asked and Javert nodded enthusiastically,

“Yes! Yes, Monsieur, thank you.”

His face was flushed red, his eyes pressed tightly closed, his jaw muscles flexed. 

“What can I do for you?” Valjean asked, genuinely. Javert whimpered,

“Touch me!”

Valjean drew his hand back and stared. Javert trembled under his gaze. He looked at the man’s fly as though he had just woken from a deep sleep and was drawing back the bedsheets to see a venomous snake. With pure, tense fear, he whispered,

“Will you show it to me?”

Javert nodded again so rapidly he might knock his head right off of his shoulders. His hands rushed to fumble the buttons of his fly and he lowered his trousers quickly to his knees. He stood with only his shirt covering it, the dark shadow of his cock visible through it. A cold sweat beaded on Valjean’s forehead.

He reached out and very tentatively lifted the shirt. Javert’s cock twitched as it was revealed and it took everything in Valjean not to jump. It was a deep scarlet with a bead of pearlescent white dribbling from the tip; rigid and straight and longer and more slender than Valjean’s own, with a thick thatch of black hair at the base. It curved and Valjean said,

“It is looking at me.”

Javert chuckled nervously,

“It looks to you in respect, Monsieur,” he said.

Valjean reached out and very gently petted it with two fingers as though he were stroking a cat between its ears. Javert cried out, thighs shaking,

“Monsieur!” he gasped, “Please-thank you!”

Valjean moved to tickle it beneath its chin and Javert groaned an almost pained noise. When he looked up, he found Javert’s face contorted almost in agony,

“What can I do?” Valjean whispered,

“Oh, Monsieur, please- stroke it.”

“I don’t remember how.”

Javert whimpered,

“Show me,” Valjean commanded. 

Javert made a helpless animal noise and then wrapped his cock in one big, hairy hand and began to stroke himself. Valjean watched in a mute strange kind of hypnotised state as that dark, glossy purple head slid in and out of the masculine hand. His breath had frozen in his throat. He reached out and gently replaced Javert’s hand with his own and Javert’s head jerked back and he grit his teeth as his hips thrust and his cock pumped into the new hand. Valjean drew back as if burned. 

“I’m sorry!” Javert gasped, “I’m sorry! I’ll be good!”

“Yes,” Valjean murmured, eyes not leaving that weeping, quivering member that continued to stare up at him so appealingly.

“Stay still,” he commanded and he took Javert in hand again.

It was easy and not so bad. Slick, soft, and warm with an appealing firmness. Javert was loud and his muttering and groaning guided Valjean in his movements. Javert came to whimpering,

“Monsieur, Monsieur, Madeleine, oh thank you, please, thank you, please- Am I good? Am I a good boy?”

“Yes,” Valjean murmured, “You are a good boy. You have been a very good boy.”

Javert shuddered, a low pained groan juddering out of him and then he was folding over and Valjean was whipping away his hand as the jerking member shot thick white stripes over the floor. Some of it spotted Valjean’s shoe. Javert’s thighs twitched, his knees trembled, he took himself in hand and stroked himself. He stilled, body weakly trembling,

“Thank you,” he whispered. 

He looked up, eyes bright with helpless adoration. Then slowly they moved down to rest on Valjean’s groin. Valjean looked down and found that he too had grown erect without realising it. Javert reached out to touch him and Valjean jerked himself away, staggering back until his rear hit the desk edge,

“No,” he rasped. 

Javert gave him a most pathetic look of rejection, standing there with his cock softening between his bare legs.

“I only want-”

“I know but, no, I do not want that. Please. I only wanted- I only wanted to do it for you.”

“But-”

“I said no. No. You wish to make me happy? It has made me happy to do that for you only.”

Javert stood pouting. He looked years younger; cheeks rosy, the deep crease that usually sat between his thick brows absent. 

“Monsieur,” he whispered, “I- I want to know if I have done something wrong? Only, I have never- I have never… no one has ever touched me like that before.”

Valjean’s brows rose, his eyes widened, his face paled,

“No one?” he whispered. Javert shook his head shyly,

“Only myself. You are the first.”

Valjean swallowed heavily, nodding his head. His eyes had taken on a distant quality. Javert’s hands knotted in his shirt. His eyes looked around the room and then he started,

“Monsieur,” he said, “there is something I can do for you.”

To Valjean’s shock and horror he dropped himself to his hands and knees and took his tongue to licking up the mess he had made on the floor. 

“Javert!” Valjean cried, scandalised, “You don’t have to! You shouldn’t!”

Javert looked up at him,

“I have made a mess, Monsieur. I will clean it up.”

He finished cleaning the stripes on the floor and then he crawled to Valjean’s feet and knelt before him, shirt bottom barely concealing his soft prick and balls. He turned his adoring gaze down on Valjean’s shoes then back up to his face,

“May I?” he said.

“Yes,” Valjean whispered, voice rough and breathless.

Javert bowed over his shoe and very slowly and delicately began to lick it clean. Every inch of Valjean shuddered. When he had finished, Javert looked back up at him, licking his lips.

“Do I please you?” He asked.

Valjean nodded, wordless. He held out his hand to cup Javert’s cheek but Javert turned his head and, taking Valjean’s hand in his own, he began to lick it clean. Valjean’s knees turned weak and he clutched at the desk edge to remain upright as that slick, muscular tongue lathed over his palm and then made to lick up the length of his fingers. His mouth was dry, he shivered. Javert finished pressing a kiss to the palm and then turned those worshipful eyes back to Valjean’s face.

“I would do anything to please you, Monsieur. There is no ask too great.”

Valjean nodded mutely.

After a long moment he murmured,

“You- you should dress.”

Javert looked disappointed but hid it quickly,

“Yes, Monsieur,” he said, bowing his head. He rose to his feet and tugged his trousers back up, tucking in his shirt and then buttoning his waistcoat. He still looked like a rumpled, red-faced mess. They stared at each other, both feeling as if what had passed between them had changed them somehow. 

“Uh,” Valjean said, “hm.”

Javert nodded. 

“Perhaps,” Valjean started, “we should-”

“Go home to our beds,” Javert supplied,

“Yes. We’re both tired.”

“It’s been a long day.”

“My housekeeper is probably waiting for me.”

“Yes.”

Javert’s hat had fallen to the floor at some point during the events and he turned on the spot wildly looking for it, sighted it and then rushed to pick it up and put it on his head. It was wonky. Valjean could not bring himself to tell him.

“Well,” Javert said, “Shall I… will I see you tomorrow?”

Valjean nodded.

Javert smiled at him, it was small and shy and nervous but filled with hope. He bowed,

“Thank you, Monsieur, and good night.”

He bowed again as he reached the door, smiled a little and then left. 

Valjean stood alone in his office. He shuddered. He folded over himself, dropping his face into his hands. God help him. 

 

Javert was in ecstasy. He had thought he had experienced ecstasy when the Mayor had agreed to accept his affections; he had known nothing. This was true ecstasy! The Mayor had touched him! The Mayor had praised him! The Mayor had wanted to see him! How wonderful! He was blushing with pride. His mind was in the heavens. He could have easily have been robbed. He might have skipped home. What a sight that would have been! That menacing, titan of a man skipping like a child! He could not take the grin from his face. He must have been horrifying to see. No criminal would have dared crossed him if they caught a glimpse of his expression. He ran up the stairs to his room and threw himself upon his bed hugging his pillow. He felt absurd. He could not help himself. He was in love!

 

Congratulations Javert

What a wicked creature Jean Valjean was! How right that Madeleine had tried to kill him! Had tried to rid the world of his cruelty! He wept terribly in bed. He was consumed with self-loathing. Oh, he had excused his theft before but how could he excuse this theft now? He had stolen out of necessity, now he had stolen out of the selfish desire to protect himself from the consequences of his own youthful choices. He had stolen Javert’s innocence. He had stolen Javert’s innocence and his wicked body had lusted in the act. His wicked body, which had never been excited by love, had been excited by this act of cruelty. And worst of all, Javert had thanked him for his crime. It was not right. If only Javert knew who had touched him so intimately, he would not be grateful, he would be rightfully outraged. He would hate Jean Valjean as Jean Valjean hated himself. And yet… and yet in Valjean’s heart there was stuck a terrible thorn: the thorn of love. It ached in his chest at the thought of that innocent face looking up at him in adoration. That face which he had once thought gruesome he now thought of as sweet, he now saw in his mind through the generous filter of love. He could not have named Javert’s flaws without effort. And what a rapid transformation! Only the night before he had shivered at the spectre of that man! Now he longed to be held by him. Now he cared for him so deeply it tore at his heart to know he was hurting him. He thought that he should break Javert’s heart now, that he should refuse his love and send him away to work elsewhere. That Javert should never look upon him again but with hatred so that he might heal and love someone new, someone worthy of one so loyal and noble and loving.

Another part of him knew he was too weak.

Jean Valjean had been so lonely for so long, had been living in a prison of stone. His heart had been frozen over by the cruelty of Toulon and although that ice had been cracked by the kindness of Bishop Myriel there had still sat a winter upon Jean Valjean’s soul. He had love to give the world but had felt no love for himself. Now he had felt love, now that he had been held in its adoring gaze, he could not bear the thought of giving it up. He wept and wept until his eyes were dry and then he kneeled on the hard cold floor and prayed for forgiveness. Prayed that Javert might wake tomorrow hating him and might take himself away to safety. 

Javert did not wake with hatred in his heart. He woke with his cock standing proud and a smile on his face. He touched himself, attempting to mimic the Mayor’s teasing touches, and for the first time engaged in this pleasure without a sense of shame. The name of Madeleine was on his lips when he reached his climax and, when he rolled out of bed mussed and flushed, he was still happy. He washed his face and cleaned his teeth grinning his tiger’s grin in the mirror. He felt he was the most handsome man in M-sur- M, correction: the second most handsome man. He thought how grateful he was that he was not a woman, for if he had been born a woman, he never would have dared approach a man so high above his status. He thought how, even if the Mayor did find another (a thought which tormented his young heart,) he would always have the memory of that affectionate touch.

In a rare occurrence (but the Javert of today was very much changed from the Javert of a month-and-half-ago) he wrote a letter to be delivered to the prefecture to say he would be late. He went instead to the tailors where he was to have the final fitting for his new suit. He was as proud as a peacock looking upon himself in the mirror as he turned and posed in it. He had never thought himself an attractive man but now he looked at himself and thought: ‘that is a man that can make the Mayor feel desire. He must be a very handsome man indeed.’ This left him feeling incredibly smug. It did not help his ego that he also knew that he was the only person the Mayor had desired in M-Sur-M. He felt himself in this way far above everyone else in town and, on a good day, far above everyone else in France. 

The thought filled his mind that although by technicality he was not courting the Mayor, that in practicality he should treat him just as well. His new suit would be finished by tomorrow he was promised so he returned home and, smiling from ear to ear, penned a letter with a flourish and had it delivered to the Mayor's office. For the first time in his life Inspector Javert was late on his rent. He thought not at all on how he might pay it. Instead, he went and borrowed more money in preparation of his planned event, without even confirming that the Mayor could attend. He was a man with a very narrow, very blinkered perspective of the future and currently he had his eyes set only on the Mayor. Regardless, his work did not suffer, this was his prerogative: to do everything to impress and please. He walked the streets with a swagger in his step and an air of smug pride but there was not a man brave enough to ask him why. He held his head high as if to say, 'Here walks a man who incites envy.' The dour crow had become a peacock. He was generous and more kindly than he had ever been but all with an air of scoffing superiority and in being so invited no more public affection for his acts than he had garnered before by being unkind. He did not care or did not see. In his mind's eye he saw himself the Mayor's well-groomed pedigree guard-dog and was very proud for it. He had no idea of the Mayor's moral torture or of himself having been caught in a trap. If he were a mouse, he would have gloated over the large piece of cheese he was crushed besides.

He spent the next few days pushing through the paperwork to arrange the transfer of the Thernadier girls into the temporary care of the Mayor while long-term plans were put in place. He wrote several letters outlining his efforts and received sparse replies, this did not concern him; he felt very certain of the Mayor’s affections. He also made several arrests and performed many acts of charity. His purse grew thinner and his list of things to report longer. It came to be Friday and he bounded up the stairs to the Mayor’s office, knocked and waited. The Mayor sounded weary. He entered and the man stared down at his paperwork without looking up.

“Monsieur,” Javert said.

“Yes, Inspector,” the Mayor replied, still not looking up, “You may begin.”

Javert frowned but began. He now had memorised both lists. He recited them exactly. He waited. The Mayor said,

“Thank you, Inspector. Fine work as always.”

Javert’s frown deepened.

“Monsieur,” he said, “forgive me but have I done something to displease you?”

The Mayor sighed and placed down his pen, he looked up with sad eyes,

“No,” he said,

“It is only you seem displeased.”

“I am not displeased, just tired. I have not been sleeping well.”

Javert hummed, little eyes darting as he looked for reasons the Mayor might be discontented, for problems he might solve on his behalf,

“You are concerned about the Thernadier girls?”

The Mayor blinked,

“Oh,” he said, “yes.”

“There is no need. You have received my letters?”

“Yes.”

“Then you know it is all well in hand. I thought… well… I wrote you another letter. About Sunday. I thought… you did not reply. Are you available that day? After church of course.”

The Mayor blinked,

“Oh,” he said again, “I had forgotten.”

He seemed to stop, he laid his heavy brow in his hand, he breathed slowly, he said,

“Yes. Meet me at my home after church.”

Javert nodded,

“Yes, Monsieur. I can see you are busy so I will leave you to your work.”

“Thank you, Javert.”

Javert bowed deeply and then turned and went to the door. As his hand pulled it closed the Mayor called,

“Do not concern yourself with me… it is not something you can help me with. It is something I must do for myself.”

Javert frowned and said nothing.

How infuriating the Mayor could be! Why? Why time and again did he keep secrets! Why did he labour alone as if he must carry the weight of the world on his shoulders when there stood Javert, his own broad shoulders willing to bear the burden? Javert could not see the hypocrisy of his complaints; that he, a stubborn, prideful, independent man should love another stubborn, occasionally prideful, independent man and struggle with it. He tried to overcome his frustration. He said: Just be there for him and he will let you in. Just show him you are loyal and reliable and he will turn to you in his time of need. He doubted himself.

Still, Sunday rode around and Javert went to church and stood in the back closest to the door as usual and paid a respectful amount of interest in the sermons and spent the entire time staring at the back of the Mayor’s head. His mind was too full of excitement to see his grand plans brought to fruition for him to be concerned or anxious about anything. He had tunnel vision. He did not wait to see the Mayor when the service ended but hurried home as quickly as possible to change into his new suit and to collect the goods he had ordered from the various bakeries and butchers and cheese and wine sellers he had paid in advance. Then he went straight to the Mayor’s abode and knocked promptly on the door.

Monsieur Madeleine sat on his sofa with his hands clasped between his knees. He stared at the ground with the kind of melancholy reserved for those about to go to the gallows. He might as well have been preparing for such a thing, although the deed he intended was more akin to murder. He intended to kill Javert’s heart. Yes. Today he would end whatever it was that was growing between them. Having done so he would set Javert free in a last act of mercy. He hoped God would forgive him for all the hurt he had caused. There came the awaited knock on the door and he rose and trod with heavy steps to answer it. As expected Javert stood waiting for him. Madeleine looked at him and said,

“Oh! You have a new suit! You look very handsome.”

No sooner at he glanced upon the figure of Javert radiant and with a beaming, wolfish grin that all thoughts other than ‘he looks very handsome’ had fled his mind. Javert said,

“Thank you, Monsieur. It is right that a man should occasionally treat himself to a new suit. Isn’t it?”

“Yes,” Jean Valjean said, “Especially a man who works as hard as you, Inspector.”

Javert grinned again and then he tucked his coat and jacket, both unbuttoned, behind him and gave a little turn,

“It is a lovely midnight blue,” Valjean said. What he thought was: ‘how broad his shoulders are’ and ‘what a little waist!’ He blushed.

“Thank you,” Javert grinned. He brushed at his fringe in a way that seemed almost comical for it made little to no difference. Valjean smiled at him and tried to hide it. He became aware that there was a basket on the man’s arm,

“What have you brought?” He asked

“Oh,” Javert said, “I thought we might be hungry during our walk. I thought once we had done discussing the business with the Thernadier girls we might have a picnic.”

Jean Valjean beamed at this and then he paused, shivered and looked past the Inspector into the street. There lay six inches of snow. He said,

“Let me get my boots and heavy coat on.”

Javert smiled again, tucking his chin into the neck of his shirt which left him with rather the adorable double chin, like a particular jowly dog. His cheeks were rosy and his eyes twinkled and indeed he seemed very pleased with himself as he offered Valjean his arm to hold while they walked.

They managed to get all the way to the edge of town before Javert stopped and, with a pathetic grimace, looked down and said,

“I had not thought of the weather.”

Valjean laughed. He had not meant to laugh but he could not help himself. He laughed and when he could pry open his eyes and see how hurt and pouting Javert was he placed his hand upon his chest and laid his head there cooing,

“There, there,”

“I am a fool,” Javert said, “I never thought. I purchased all the food and commissioned the suit. It never occurred to me it was deep winter. I am a ninny.”

“It’s alright,” Valjean said, looking up at him and petting his cheek as though he were petting a dog,

“It was very thoughtful of you,” he said.

Javert still pouted.

“Come,” Valjean said, “Let us walk home and warm ourselves and we can eat before the fire.”

“Yes,” Javert said, defeated, “But it is not… it is not what I intended.”

“Life does not always give us what we intend. The ways of God are beyond those of man.”

 

Valjean lit the fire and then lay the picnic blanket out in front of it, having pushed the sofa back against the wall. A woollen blanket! On snow! He had to restrain himself from laughing again. How foolish the man was. How sweet. Javert was shrugging off his coat, still sulking, and then his jacket while Valjean laid out the spread,

“This is a very fine picnic,” Valjean said, reading the label on the wine. He looked up as Javert approached and hooked up his trousers legs to seat himself on the ground.

“This is far better fair than you should have bought,” Valjean chided, tutting. Javert flushed from ear to ear in the firelight and said,

“I would not desire to present you with anything less.”

Valjean handed out the plates and little forks and they set about sharing out the cheese and the dates, and the pitted olives, and the sweets, and the little fruits, and then finally the wine.

“I have been writing to a little convent in Paris,” Valjean said, around a mouthful of some little sweet fruit he did not know the name of, “and they are willing to take in the two girls.”

“On the agreement you donate a healthy sum,” Javert chuckled darkly,

“Well, yes,” Valjean said defensively, “I would not expect them to take on another two mouths to feed without some recompense.”

“Have you…” Javert ventured, clearly nervous, “Seen the girl and her mother?”

“Oh,” Valjean replied, “yes. I have visited them both. The girl is staying with my housekeeper, she has some granddaughters the same age and she says they play together wonderfully. Fantine is…” he drifted off, eyes downcast, “I am praying for her.”

Javert hummed. He adjusted himself into lying down, propped himself up on one elbow, and opened a little brown paper packet and offered it up,

“Monsieur,”

Valjean reached and took out the little yellow cube and popped it into his mouth,

“Oh!” He said, “That’s very sweet. Ginger? Try it.”

Javert still held out the bag to him and so he took out a piece and held it out for him. Much to his surprise the Javert leant forward and took it from his fingers with his lips. Valjean’s breath had caught in his throat. He felt looming over him a dark shadow. He knew he was doing a terrible thing. He was caught in the grip of shame, the awareness that God looked down upon him and was judging.

Somehow, they came to be laid out on the floor together. Valjean on his back, the contents of the picnic basket strewn about and discarded, and Javert leaning over him, propped up on his elbows. The man was pressing kisses over Valjean’s face: over his nose, his brow, his cheek, his jaw, his ear, and then down his neck. Valjean’s fingers stroked through his hair thoughtlessly. The fire was very warm and the light ever so gentle, softening their faces.

“Monsieur,” Javert murmured, “Monsieur… I have been thinking of nothing but you.”

Valjean’s hands moved of their own accord to stroke up and down those narrow flanks and then round the back to feel where the corset waistcoat was laced up. He only murmured. He could produce no reply when Javert was sucking on his earlobe and nibbling on his neck. Javert’s own large, long-fingered hands were stroking over Valjean’s chest, his other tangling in the dark curls of his brunette hair.

“Monsieur,” he was murmuring, “Monsieur. How I’d please you. Let me please you.”

He moved his lips, nuzzling for a moment at Valjean’s jaw before sucking on his adam’s apple.

“Oh, Javert,” Valjean sighed, “what wickedness. You are moving me to sin.”

Javert pressed delicate kisses over the line of his jaw,

“It is not a crime, Monsieur. It is not illegal. I cannot speak for the laws of God… but … If he doesn’t like it,” Javert continued, grazing his teeth over Valjean’s chin, “He can address it with me.”

Valjean could not reply to this, nor chide the man for the arrogance of it, for he was immediately made aware of the firm stiffness between Javert’s legs as it rubbed up against his thigh. He could only draw back with an inhale of breath and look the man in the eyes. They were dark, bloated black with desire.

"Monsieur,” Javert whispered, “Forgive me. Perhaps I should be punished. Perhaps I should be made to sit and beg.”

Valjean took him by the waist and rolled him onto his back. Javert grunted as the heavy weight of Valjean’s body landed on top of him, his thigh pushed between Javert’s legs. He arched up without pause and began to suck again more frantically at Valjean’s adam’s apple as Valjean’s broad warm palm smoothed down the front of his vest. He moaned as that hand began to unbutton his vest, and then again as it made to unbutton his shirt. Javert’s own hands were making fine work of stroking all over Valjean’s shoulders and then the length of his back, dipping the fingertips into the waistband of his trousers but never any further. They moaned together as Valjean pressed sucking kisses to the very edge of Javert’s mouth where it dimpled his cheek.

“Monsieur-” Javert began and Valjean cut him off,

“Quiet,” he said, breath hot against Javert’s ear, “dogs do not speak. You’ll bark when you’re told to.”

Yes, Valjean was innocent but he was not blind. It had become quite clear to him what the man desired. The needy, keening whimper than Javert made in his ear told him he was right.

“Let’s tickle your belly,” Valjean rumbled as he slid his hand inside the man’s shirt to feel the coarse scruff of hair that trailed down it, “that’s what a dog likes.”

Javert whined again, arching his hips up against the firmness of Valjean’s thick thigh. Valjean tutted at him as he began to stroke up and down the flat, hot stomach. He tickled it with his finger tips and Javert whined again, gasping and rolling up against him. Valjean moved his other hand to grip the Javert's thick dark hair and lifted himself on his arm so he might look down into his face. That face was caught in a look of agonised desperation. How could this man be the same spectre who haunted the streets, who tormented and terrified criminals? This red blushed, gasping, moaning creature, slack-faced with eyes like two hot coals, and a messy black fringe that stuck up in spikes. Valjean tugged on his hair and the low hungry moan Javert made in response was rewarded with the slow sliding of his hand lower on the man’s belly.

“Bark,” Valjean whispered, and Javert barked a quiet sound accompanied by a snapping of his teeth and a wrinkling of his nose.

“Good boy,” Valjean rewarded him.

What a wicked creature he was. He knew what a wicked thing he did to the man beneath him; how he degraded him, how he tormented him. Yet could he truly be held to blame? For he was not thinking in this moment: I am Jean Valjean and he is Inspector Javert. Truthfully, he was thinking nothing at all except for how nice it felt to be looked at with such burning desire and love.

He slid his hand down beneath the tight belt of Javert’s trousers and found the hot prick there, twitching and waiting for him and he clutched it with a firm grip. Javert’s eyes rolled in his skull, his mouth fell open in a helpless, breathless noise of pleasure, he thrust up into that hand. Valjean felt no fear this time when he stroked him, curling his fingers over his balls and stroking his thumb over the sticky head. He took away his hand only to unbutton the man’s trousers so he may get a better hold of it. His shyness had abated when he had realised how little technique and knowledge it took to have the man beneath him moaning and thrashing his head from side to side as though he feared drowning. His own cock was rigid and throbbing in his trousers and he did not mean to but he thrust it down against Javert’s thigh. Javert moaned and whined beneath him, alternating between the hunger of a man and the desperate desire for affection of a dog. Valjean bit his ear and kissed his face and tugged his hair and stroked him and said,

“Bark,” and Javert cried out under him spilling hot in his hand and over his own stomach. Valjean’s breath shuddered over his ear. Javert whimpered and then barked weakly.

“I’m sorry,” Valjean whispered, pressing a chaste kiss to his cheek, “I’m sorry.”

“Thank you,” Javert answered, “Thank you. I am so grateful.”

He turned his head and pressed a firm kiss to Valjean’s cheek,

“I think of only you; I fantasise only about you,” he said fervently, “I have been longing for you.”

His hand moved to stroke across Valjean’s hip and Valjean rolled off of him and sat up, panting roughly. His own erection was painful, but he had not spilled and he could ease his guilt with that knowledge. What a pitiful thing. What a pitiful creature grasping at any straw to relieve his own responsibility. Javert sat up and slung his long arms around him from behind, kissing his ear,

“Monsieur,” he murmured, “you have to do nothing. I respect you too much to push you to anything you do not wish. Even if I do not understand.”

“Thank you,” Valjean growled. He trembled.

“Excuse me one moment,” he said, “I will get you a flannel to clean up.”

He rose painfully to his feet and staggered into the kitchen where he quickly freed himself and touched himself furiously, finding his release with painful intensity. He cleaned himself just as quickly and roughly, filled with shame, washed the cloth and brought it in clean for Javert to use.

Javert was still sitting on the floor where he'd left him looking at him with a helpless nervousness. Valjean handed him the cloth and offered him a gentle, reassuring smile. Javert smiled weakly back.

“Have I-”

“Don’t,” Valjean said softly, “don’t apologise. It’s not you, it’s not anything you’ve done.”

He sat slowly on the sofa and patted the spot beside him. Javert finished cleaning himself, tucked himself away and then rose with a grunt and sat next to him, their legs pressed together. Valjean took his hand,

“I-I have a past, Javert. One I am not proud of. My thoughts are complicated on… our situation. It is not you. It is never you.”

Javert raised a hand and very gently wiped his thumb over Valjean’s cheek. When he brought it away it was wet,

“I’m sorry,” Valjean said,

“It’s alright.”

“It’s not you. I am just- I am a melancholy person. I cry. Sometimes I like to be alone,” he laughed, “I almost always like to be alone.”

“If I cannot apologise,” Javert said seriously, “and you are not ready to tell me your secrets, tell me this: how can I help?”

Valjean sighed,

“I don’t know.”

Javert hummed and then very slowly he wrapped his long arms around Valjean’s broad shoulders and adjusted his seat on the sofa, spreading his legs and drawing Valjean to sit between them, his back against Javert’s chest. He rested his lantern jaw on Valjean’s shoulder, the bristles of his beard scratching Valjean’s cheek. Valjean trembled in his grasp. He was trapped. There was no escape from the tenderness of his touch. He leant back into his capture and let himself weep without shame. He wept for his past mistakes, he wept that he should find now in his life such a sweet love and have it overshadowed by one fool mistake. He wept that without that fool mistake he might have never known the man at all. He asked God: why did you put me in this impossible situation? And through it all Javert held him, solid as stone and warm and giving as flesh. He breathed slowly and with time Valjean’s heaving breaths slowed and he turned to rest his brow against Javert’s cheek.

“I am here,” Javert said, “and I will listen. When you are ready.”

With a deep sadness Valjean thought: I must do it.

“Javert,” he whispered, “what could I do to lose your love?”

He felt the heavy, bushy brows draw down,

“Nothing.”

“No,” he murmured, “think seriously. Do not make promises you cannot keep.”

Javert puffed out a heavy breath through his nose and was silent. He thought for a long time, rocking Valjean gently in his arms as his mind worked.

“Well,” he said, “I suppose if I found out you were… unjust. Wicked, cruel, unlawful.”

“What do you mean by that?” Valjean urged, “by unlawful.”

Javert stiffened,

“What do you mean by that?” he asked in return,

“It’s- it’s only that I have interrupted your work twice over and-” he struggled to think of a lie. Javert did not notice, he only huffed in relief,

“That was not so unforgivable. I have forgiven you, haven’t I?”

“And if… if I was not a good man in my past life?”

Javert was quiet once more.

In one way, Valjean was glad he could not see the man’s face, in another he wished he could read those eyes.

“It would depend,” Javert said seriously,

“On what?”

“On what you did. There are some crimes that are unforgivable.”

“The implication being that some are forgivable?”

“In the eyes of the law, yes. If a man commits a minor crime and serves his time, comes back into society and returns to it wholeheartedly, not reoffending then: yes, he should be forgiven.”

Valjean sagged in his arms,

“A man can be redeemed then? In your eyes?”

“If he obeys the law: yes. He must serve his time, fulfil his parole, then return to society legally. Of course, if he has committed a serious infraction, like murder then: no. I highly doubt you are a murderer, Monsieur. I would know. I did enough background checks into you.”

He chuckled. Valjean was relieved by the joke, it gave him an excuse to tense in the man’s arms. Javert choked on his joke.

“I’m sorry,” he murmured, “that was in poor taste.”

“It’s okay.”

Javert pressed a firm kiss to his cheek.

“It’s not,” he said, “but I would like it to be one day.”

Valjean brought his hands up and rested them over Javert’s own; over those long, wolfishly hairy fingers. He caressed them gently.

“I am proud of this,” Javert said, “I would be proud to be seen by you, if society allowed it. I know it’s not a crime but… it frustrates me that we may only sit like this in the privacy of your home. I would hold you in the fields or on a bench or… well anywhere. I would be very proud to be yours, Monsieur.”

Valjean sighed heavily.

“Yes, society puts many burdens upon us.”

He turned his head again and pressed a kiss to Javert’s hairy cheek, feeling it crease in a smile.

 

They both woke a little more stiff than they would have preferred, having fallen asleep slumped in each other’s arms. Javert snuffled as he woke and grunted and he looked blearily about the unfamiliar room before he realised that it was the Mayor lying in his arms, trapping him against the couch. He looked down at the man and found him already awake looking back at him. He smiled slowly. Who? Both of them. There was a newfound knowing in those smiles.

Sadly, Valjean was now in his fifties and was suffering from all of the attributes that accompanied that not quite venerable age. He was sore and stiff and he struggled to pull himself from Javert’s lap and sit up. Javert followed after him, all long awkward limbs swinging over the couch, and they took each other’s hands as they rose.

“Would you like some tea?” Valjean asked and Javert smiled his agreement.

They sat together, hands entwined over the table as they sipped their tea and smiled at each other with a shy pleasure.

“Oh,” Valjean said, “I must tell you: I have secured the money for the pay raise for the officers of the prefecture.”

Javert flushed,

“Oh, yes, good.”

Valjean tutted, smiling wryly,

“Yes, I know you don’t approve but still. And I thought that we could go an collect the girls sometime this week? When are you free?”

“I can be free at your leisure, Monsieur.”

“Please,” Valjean said, “Call me J-” he caught himself and sat in a wide-eyed silence.

Javert stared at him with blank expectancy.

“Monsieur?” he said.

Valjean- no, Madeleine said:

“You may call me my name… Jacques.”

Javert lit up like an evening lantern,

“Oh!” he said. He blushed pink,

“Yes, Monsieur. That would be nice. Jacques.”

Valjean hid his face, pretending it was to hide a smile. In reality he grimaced. He pressed an apologetic kiss to the back of Javert’s palm,

“Well, I do not want to underestimate how busy you are in your work and I would not interrupt you.”

“I would welcome your interruption,” Javert insisted, beaming, all of his awkward, uneven wolf’s teeth on show.

“Good,” Madeleine said, “Yes, good. We will go Tuesday then. You can have your quarry and I will rest easy knowing those girls are living good, Christian lives.”

Javert nodded, tucking his chin into his neck with pride.

How this man had blossomed, Valjean thought, how that hard grey slate of a man had softened and warmed; a rose blooming after years of neglect.

He reached across the table and tenderly cupped that bristly cheek, stroking it with his thumb. Javert smiled at him, leaning into his touch. They sat like that until, with embarrassment, Valjean realised his arm was getting tired. Then he rose and said with a polite cough,

“I think perhaps… you should?”

Javert rose quickly, almost knocking the chair over,

“I would not want to overstay my welcome-”

“You aren’t,” Valjean assured him, stepping closer to take hold of the lapels of his waistcoat, “you aren’t it is only… I suppose if you do not go now, you never will.”

Javert grinned,

“I mean it,” Valjean sighed, “I have a feeling I would keep petting you and forget you had ever meant to go home.”

Javert blushed at that, dropping his eyes. They looked up again shyly through his thick bushy brows and he said,

“I would be happy to stay here,”

Now it was Valjean’s turn to flush,

“Oh.”

“I meant- I meant I might sleep on the sofa. Only so I could see you in the morning and share breakfast.”

Valjean chuckled with embarrassment, hands unconsciously smoothing the front of Javert’s vest over his broad barrel chest,

“Well,” he said, “perhaps if you are a good boy helping me with these girls…”

Javert made a choked noise in his throat and when Valjean looked up, smiling wryly, he found the man flushed deeply, eyes bright,

“Yes, Monsieur,” he rumbled.

 

If they did not retrieve Javert’s belongings now they never would. How embarrassing it was to collect up the scattered, wasted food! And the empty bottle of wine! Had they really drunk so much? Valjean folded the picnic blanket and packed it into the basket as Javert finished pulling on his long black coat, buttoning it up.

“You know,” Valjean said, “you ought not wear that new suit on Tuesday. I want to have my wits about me.”

Javert flushed with pride, dipping his head shyly,

“Yes, Monsieur. I take it that is an order?”

“It is.”

Valjean bit his lip as he handed over the basket. Javert brushed at his fringe. They looked at each other, standing in the hallway.

“Good evening,” Valjean said and Javert said,

“Good evening, Monsieur.”

He dipped forward quickly and pecked Valjean on the cheek. Valjean hid his blush as he opened the door (just in case there was anyone outside.) Javert tipped his hat and then he stumbled down the front steps, too distracted by looking over his shoulder and smiling. Valjean stood at the door and waved at him as he swaggered away down the street. He closed the door. He collapsed back against it.

How had this happened?

He had not broken up with Javert at all. He had only just remembered he intended it. He closed his eyes. He did not want to. Why would God give him this love now if not to cherish it? He had been born again through this love. He felt young and new, like the fresh growth of a plant: green and reaching for the sun. He felt so shy, even in the privacy of his own house he felt he should hide his blush. He wanted Javert to knock again at the door and say, ‘I thought I would stay instead.’ He flushed at the thought. He felt horrible and selfish and cruel. He felt light-footed and sick with happiness. What a sweet man. How had ever thought him a wolf when he was nothing but a puppy-dog? Maybe this was not a test? Perhaps it was a reward. Had he finally earned God’s forgiveness. He hoped so. God help him, he hoped so. 


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The carriage ride to Montfermeil was tense once more but for an entirely different reason. A little way into the journey Javert switched sides, squeezing in besides the Mayor and held his hand. It was clear the Mayor was nervous. There was no need to be. Javert had had Montfermeil police watching the Thernadier establishment for the past few days and the day before their journey the family had made for some kind of escape. They had been captured, well, the mother and daughters had been captured. The father had escaped, the slippery snake. The Mayor had to do nothing but take the girls to their new home. Still, he was a worrier, that was very apparent to Javert who was proud to say he knew the man well. 

The Thernadier girls were not so willing to come with them as Cosette had been and they bit and scratched and spit in the Mayor’s eye and they wept terribly and screamed at him and beat him with their fists. At one point the smallest one jumped from the carriage and Javert had to leap out behind her, scoop her up and carry her kicking and screaming. The older girl, Eponine was more cunning. She sat brooding while her sister screamed herself into an exhausted teary silence. She was the more dangerous of the two, Javert thought. 

The littlest one calmed down somewhat when they arrived in M-Sur-M and she found herself receiving a hot bath, a warm filling meal, new clothes and new toys. The housekeeper put her to bed, stroking her hair until he slept, sniffling and red-eyed. Then she went downstairs to collect the older girl. It was then that the older girl leapt upon her knocking her down. She opened the door and fled into the street. Javert caught her easily, big hand wrapping almost twice round her skinny wrist. He dragged her in, swooping down over her like home horrendous raven perching over a corpse,

“You would see yourself in prison, little wolf,” he snarled, shaking her, “you would see yourself beaten and chained, working your hands raw, hmm? Or the wife of some older man, beaten and worn as well as if you were in a prison.”

Her eyes filled with tears and she spat at him,

“You’re a silly girl!” he snarled, “You spat in the face of your saviour before and now you spit in mine though I help you.”

“You took my mother!” she snarled back, snapping at him to bite his nose. He bared his teeth,

“Your father abandoned you and your mother to jail. He would see you rot in a dark hole. This man would see you fed, clothed and educated. I don’t think you deserve it, nor will anyone else in society until you prove you are. What do you want out of life? To run from the police like your father? To rot in prison like your mother? Or to make something of yourself and look after your little sister who you were so quick to abandon? Think on it.”

He dragged her back and made her apologise to the housekeeper, which she did with a sneer. Then he cuffed her head and had her locked in her bedroom.

“Thank you, Inspector,” the housekeeper said, touching her sore, bruised brow. Javert cocked the corner of his mouth. He turned; the Mayor looked on him sadly.

When the housekeeper had taken herself up to bed the Mayor said,

“That was very cruel of you, Javert.”

“With some of them you must be cruel to be kind.”

“No,” the Mayor said, shaking his head sadly, “you must not.” 

He went and sat by the fire.

Javert stood in the doorway, hands on his hips,

“You expected them to be grateful? You expected them to thank you for taking them from their mother as heartily as Cosette was expected to thank you for bringing her back to her mother? She had barely seen her mother,” he said, “don’t look surprised, I went in myself to ask of her. The doctor said the mother is so sick now she cannot even be visited by her daughter. It would be too upsetting for the little girl.”

The Mayor’s head dropped into his hands and he began to weep. Javert’s posture softened. He went and sat beside him, wrapping him in his arms,

“Monsieur,” he murmured, “you are not God. You cannot work miracles. You gave the woman an opportunity to look upon her daughter before she died. You give these girls now- although they don’t appreciate it- an opportunity to escape a future of crime and misery.”

“For all I do right I seem to do wrong,” The Mayor said, “I truly did not want them to appreciate me. I just didn’t want to harm them, but I have. I have upset them so deeply.”

“No,” Javert said, “it is their parents’ choices that led them here. Would they be more happy on the run, hungry and afraid?”

He pressed a kiss to the top of the Mayor’s head. 

“I just wish I could do something good for once. Something purely good,” the Mayor said.

“You do, you have. You have fed many, you have improved the lives of everyone in this town, brought prosperity.”

“And with it more crime, you said so yourself.”

“But that is not your fault.”

“Those girls will long for their mother all of their lives. You never recover from such a grief.”

Javert could only grunt at that and lay his cheek upon the Mayor’s crown. After a moment he said,

“I see I can say nothing to ease you.”

“I’m sorry.”

“Don’t apologise. Be unhappy if you must, but tomorrow look to the future.”

The Mayor chuckled weakly,

“Yes,” he said, petting Javert’s hand, “you’re very wise.”

 

The next day the housekeeper came downstairs to find the Mayor asleep on the sofa, Inspector Javert slumped over him in an embrace. She thought it best not to embarrass them, after all, a man could not know what he did when he was asleep and they were both such proud and private men they would certainly be ashamed.

The Mayor woke a little later approaching her sheepishly while she made breakfast in the kitchen.

“Are the girls awake?” he asked,

“Yes,” she said, “I told them to brush their hair and put on their clothes in preparation for breakfast.

“I wanted to speak to you before they did,” he said, “it’s only, well, you have done so well by Cosette. She loves you very dearly and your granddaughters have become true playmates to her-”

She sighed, turning to him, wiping her hands with the dishrag, 

“Monsieur, I knew you would think to ask me this and how I would like to do as you wish but there is simply not enough room in my family home. We are struggling already with the three girls, my daughter, her husband, and I. We simply couldn’t fit anyone else.”

“Oh,” he said, “No, you’re right. Then he paused, heavy brow sinking in a frown of thought. 

“Well,” he said, “Why do you not move in here?”

“I couldn’t,” she replied, “as you said, I am looking after Cosette-”

“No,” he said, “All of you. The whole family. This house is too big for a single man like myself. I do not know when the girls will be ready to travel to Paris. Why don’t you move your family in here and I will rent a property elsewhere, something more suitable to a man like me. Of course I will leave all the furniture and such, although I would like to take my books and some personal items if that is acceptable to you. You will not pay any rent, I have no need of money.”

She stared at him and then her eyes began to well,

“Oh, sir!” she cried, throwing herself upon him in an embrace. He started and she collected herself drawing away, knowing how shy he was of physical touch, “I’m sorry she said, “Oh, really! You would let us stay rent free? You are certain? We could pay you something-”

“Oh no, no,” he said blushing with embarrassment, “I am more than rich enough, I do not know what to do with it. No, I would be happy to see this house put to better use. And I will of course give you a payment to care for the girls as well as Cosette-”

She began to weep then,

“Oh, sir,” she said, “I am a very old woman and this is the kindest thing anyone has done for me in my long life.”

He looked like he knew not what to do with that and only patted her shoulder kindly, saying,

“There there…”

After a while he said,

“Is there coffee?”

“Oh, yes!” she said and she went quickly back to preparing breakfast. 

Madeleine hurried away out of the kitchen and into the large hall. He felt terribly embarrassed and deeply uncomfortable with the show of emotion. He had not an idea of what to do about the woman’s tears. He found Javert grunting and tucking in his shirt as he ambled out of the living-room.

“Monsieur,” he rumbled, voice still rough with sleep,

“There is coffee,” Madeleine smiled. In truth he didn’t drink it but Javert, upon waking, had asked for it straight away. 

Javert grunted again in answer and moved towards him, stopping at a respectful distance,

“Girls still here?”

“Yes, and breakfast is almost ready.”

“Good, good. I will go and leave you to it then.”

“Don’t be foolish,” he said, perhaps a touch too fondly seeing as they were not alone, but the softening of Javert’s look was worth the risk, “your company at breakfast would be more than welcomed.”

“To girl wrangle.”

“Yes, if you wish. Oh, I have some news. I will be quitting the Mayoral property.”

Javert frowned,

“You’re no longer to be Mayor? Why?”

“Oh no, I am merely leaving the property. The housekeeper will be moving in her family. You know I have realised I do not remember her name! What a terrible thing,” he looked dreadfully nervous, “I cannot ask her now…”

“Oh, stop it,” Javert said, “what’s going on? You’re moving out? Someone’s moving in? Nonsense. Where are you moving to?”

“Oh, I don’t know,” he said mildly,

“You don’t know? Montreuil with have a homeless Mayor!?”

Madeleine laughed at that,

“You are a silly man,” he said and Javert blushed, “No, I will find someplace. Oh,” he said growing conspiratorial. He stepped closer, reaching out with a shy look to stroke Javert’s fingers,

“Perhaps I will find somewhere a little out in the country where I might have some more privacy.”

Javert’s frown deepened, he opened his mouth to argue and then a look of slow dawning realisation passed over his face and he grinned,

“Yes,” he said, “That sounds like a very fine idea indeed.”

 

The little girl, Azelma, threw her food about until she realised she was hungry and then she ate ravenously. The older girl, Eponine, ate with a slow, gruesome ferocity. She had a dark, stern look in her eyes and kept her face down. She did as she was told and argued nothing, even cuffing her sister once or twice when she sought to scream or screech in protest. This was an improvement, in Javert’s eyes, but a sign of potential problems ahead. There were clearly plans afoot. Still, he could not bring himself to be too concerned. The scrambled eggs were served in great volume and he was truly very hungry. He had begun paying off his back rent but at the expense of buying food and he had been wringing every last drop of nutrition from the food left over after the successful but equally disastrous picnic. To say he had been living on olives would be an exaggeration but not far off. It turned out he did not particularly like olives. He was hungry, he was tired, he was in debt, he was deliriously happy.

The thought that the Mayor might rent a property intentionally for their privacy gave him immense confidence in their… situation. Relationship was not the right word, after all they had set ground rules and so far hadn’t broken them. Except perhaps they had come a little close to holding hands, but never while walking so by technicality that law had been upheld. He left the Mayor’s house with resignation, for he would have spent the whole day in the man’s company if he could, but he had work to do and he could not risk opening himself to criticism, not when he held such close attachment to the Mayor. Yes, their social positions put then at risk of rumour and critique, that was a downside of such a relationship not just between two men but worse so between two men. None of his concerns dampened his mad happiness. Not even the strange conversation they had had that night where the Mayor had hinted at an unsavoury past had concerned Javert too much. He felt, with a deep gut certainty, that whatever the Mayor’s past held they would overcome. They simply loved each other too much. And that thought! That the mayor loved him as much as he loved the Mayor! Of course, the Mayor had not said it but had not Javert seen it in his eyes that morning when they had awoken once more in each other’s arms. Had the Mayor’s masculine yet tender hand not brushed Javert’s fringe from his eyes with such gentleness? Had they not gazed at each other in complete peace and contentment? They loved each other. If they were man and woman no doubt they would be engaged. If only. That was the one fault of their relationship: they could not marry. So be it, they could be man and wife in many other ways. Javert was deeply happy and for the first time in his life content. He wished for nothing and received everything without asking. He had never dreamed it possible. He wanted to be nowhere but M-Sur-M and in the Mayor’s arms. 

 

Very quickly the Mayor moved out and the housekeeper’s family moved in. The silly man still had not been brave enough to enquire her name and had begged Javert to get the information on his behalf. Javert had refused just to be a tease and he snickered wickedly every time the Mayor shot him a pleading look. On the Sunday, he carried the Mayor’s few belongings into a new house on the very edge of the town, almost on the edge of the forest, and placed them down on the living-room floor. It was a very small house with one guest bedroom. Not the kind of property suited for a Mayor but more for a groundskeeper. Javert closed the door behind him and the Mayor was in his arms, gazing up at him with a look halfway between sadness and hopefulness,

“I will miss my garden,” he sighed and Javert smiled and kissed his nose,

“You will make a better one, and you will have all the forest for a garden it seems.”

“Wild mushrooms!” the Mayor cried, delighted.

“Indeed.”

 

They wasted no time christening the house and for the first time went to the bedroom together. How shy they were standing beside the bed, still covered in a dust sheet, holding hands and gazing at each other with coy embarrassment. Now, together, in this room, they found they did not know what to do with each other. Javert because he was so filled with the wonder at being brought here by the man he adored and Valjean because he was so trapped between his desire to be held skin-to-skin and his terror of revealing his body and all its innumerable markers of the past. Eventually, he said, 

“Shall we sit down?” and he sat on the edge of the bed. To his amusement and embarrassment Javert instead dropped to his knees before him on the floor. 

They looked at each other blushing,

“Oh,” Valjean said. Javert was far to red and shy to say anything at all and only looked at him hopefully.

“We will have to take off this,” Valjean said beginning to unbutton his vest for him, “doggies don’t wear vests now do they?” 

Javert blushed furiously and shook his head.

“Nor do they wear shirts or shoes,” he said as he slid the vest from Javert’s broad shoulders. Javert took the hint and hurried quickly to removing his boots, barely resisting flinging them across the room. Valjean began to unbutton his shirt for him, barely able to meet his eye. When it was opened, he realised the man was wearing a strip of leather at his throat and he paused in his ministrations to unbuckle it.

“Well,” he said, “a collar. Doggies do wear those.” 

If Javert had a tail it would be wagging. 

Valjean placed the stock on the bed at his side and began to slip the shirt off. When it hung about Javert’s wrists he paused to sigh and look admiringly over the bared body before him. Javert blushed and looked away.

“Beautiful,” Valjean murmured and he reached out with a tentativeness usually reserved for the holy and placed his hands upon the flat, hairy chest. Javert trembled. His hands, coarse and worn through hard labour slid down those planes, nudging the little hard nipples in their nest of thick dark hair, and then over the rolling ditches and dykes of ribs, and then finally over the lean muscular stomach before stopping at the waistband of Javert’s trousers. Beneath there, the barely concealed erection made itself known. Valjean swallowed. 

“Beg,” he whispered. Javert perked up at the command and brought up his hands in the most pitiful display. Valjean flushed. 

“Good boy,” he said. 

Javert’s breath caught in his throat, his chest heaved, his eyes, which had been dark, grew blacker than the nights sky in deep winter. 

Valjean held out a hand,

“Shake, boy,” he said, unable to resist a little smile. Javert seriously and dutifully placed a paw in his hand and let it be shook. Valjean held out his hand for the other one and received that too, “Very good.”

Then some wicked devil saw its way into his heart for he held out his hand to Javert’s face and said,

“Lick.”

Javert made a sound undecidedly like a dog, leant in and, gazing up into Valjean’s eyes, licked his finger from tip to base. They both shuddered. He continued, one finger at a time and then moved to drag his tongue in slow strokes over the broad palm.

“Good boy,” Valjean murmured, barely thinking the words, barely registering his own low voice. He sat back a little further on the bed and gently patted his thigh,

“Come,” he said, and when Javert crawled forward he buckled the stock once more around his throat, rotating it so that the buckle stood proudly at the front.

“What a handsome fellow,” he murmured, “What a handsome dog I am the proud owner of.”

He cupped the Javert’s head and leant it to gently rest on this thigh.

“Good boy,” he said, voice soft, “Good boy,” and he rested his hand on that bristled cheek and stroked it, and smoothed his hand behind the ear and stroked there, and with his other hand he ran his fingers through the thick dark hair of Javert’s head; and he did this until the man’s eyes began to close in contentment and he sighed deeply, resting his weight against Valjean’s thigh. Valjean leant over him and kissed him upon the crown of his head,

“Good boy.”

 

They did nothing more than lay in each other’s arms, front to front, on their sides, and placed kisses on each other’s faces. How luxuriant it was. How content they were in this new exploration of Javert’s bare torso: Valjean to explore it and Javert to have it explored. When they grew tired of kissing each other on the face (which was not possible) they thought it time to kiss each other elsewhere and Javert began at Valjean’s neck and Valjean twisted and wriggled on the bed until he could roll Javert on his back and kiss his collarbone. Javert sighed so readily and so continually that Valjean could not help but laugh against his chest, burying his face in the scratching dark hair and then spattering it with kisses. Javert wrapped his arms around him and squeezed him, kissing the top of his head and his ear in revenge. After a while their foolish giggling and kissing turned to moans and gasps of pleasure as Valjean’s lips found the little hard nibs of Javert’s nipples and embraced them. Javert’s body arched against him, the heat between his legs pushing with greater insistency as he scratched his claws over Valjean’s back, groaning encouragement. Valjean let the nipple slip from his mouth only to kiss his way across the broad chest to take the other one: flicking over it with his tongue. How Javert clung to him, how those long powerful legs wrapped around him and pulled him in tight, like the curling muscle of a snake. Valjean only released him to lean up and press hungry kisses to his face.  

“You’re so beautiful,” Valjean groaned,

“Liar,” Javert growled, clawing the breadth of his shoulders,

“You are,” he said, sucking on Javert’s neck just above his collar, “you’re magnificent and fearsome like a tiger.”

Javert chuckled, a low rough noise of desire,

“I thought I was your dog?”

“You can be both,” Valjean rumbled drawing back only enough to gaze down into his eyes. Javert gazed back up at him; yes, that was a tiger’s smile: all teeth and gum. Fearsome and yet lazy with contentment. He rubbed their noses together and Javert chuckled again. It was a handsome chuckle, low and rumbly like a tiger’s purr. Valjean’s hand smoothed up and down his bare flank. 

“I’m so grateful,” Valjean said, barely above a whisper.

“So am I,” Javert whispered back. He did not stop smiling,

“Although,” he continued, “I’d be even more grateful if…?”

He rolled his hips, grinding a rather persistent something against Valjean’s stomach. Valjean chuckled,

“Oh, you’re a naughty doggie.”

Javert bit his lip. Valjean sat up, resting back on his calves, Javert’s legs still wrapped around his waist. 

“How pretty you look laid out for me,” Valjean sighed. Javert blushed deeply, turning his face away but he couldn’t keep his eyes off of Valjean when his hands came to begin unbuttoning Javert’s trousers,

“There’s my special friend,” Valjean cooed as Javert’s cock sprang free eagerly. It was painfully red, a thick trail of precome dribbling from the tip down the length.

Javert grinned with embarrassed pride as Valjean admired him. When Valjean’s fingers tickled beneath the head it jumped, 

“What an enthusiastic little fellow,” Valjean smiled, he leant down and kissed it. Javert cried out, throwing him head back, hips arching from the bed. He whimpered as Valjean drew back to sit again. 

“Bark for me my little doggy.”

Javert drew up his hands to beg and barked. His cock jumped against his stomach. 

“Oh,” Valjean said chuckling with delight, “it does tricks!”

“Stop it,” Javert grumbled, blushing heavily. 

Valjean couldn’t help but chuckle again and he leant over Javert, cupping his jaw and drawing him up to press a kiss to the corner of his lips. How hard it had been to divert his kiss at the last minute! He had almost broken his own rule! Javert was a terrible temptation.

“You are so sweet,” he murmured as he kissed his way over Javert’s hot cheeks,

“I’m not,” Javert grumbled, 

“You are.”

He drew back and it took everything in his power not to kiss those pouting lips. He made it up to Javert by taking his cock in his hand. Then he treated himself to sitting back on his heels and watching as Javert writhed against the bed, rolling his hips, thrusting his cock into Valjean’s hand, groaning and chewing on his lip, eyes pressed closed. His other hand settled on Javert’s narrow hip, stroking his thumb through the dark hair. Javert groaned and whined under him, voice breaking as Valjean’s hand slid from his hip to cup and roll his balls. He gave three short barks of pleasure and then bared his teeth in a feral snarl as he spilled over Valjean’s fist. All the while Valjean looked on him with absolute adoration. He could not take his eyes from that lean hairy body nor that red face as it contorted equally in ecstasy and agony. 

When Javert was whimpering, unable to take anymore, he moved his hands to massage those muscular thighs. Javert had slumped down in the bed, head rolled to one side, eyes closed, mouth open in an ‘o’ of pleasure. He sighed and swallowed heavily. He blinked blearily and looked up at Valjean with a slow satisfied smile.

“I love you,” he said. Valjean laughed,

“I am getting better at it!”

“Stop it,” Javert chided, “I mean it. I love you.”

Tears pricked at the corners of Valjean’s eyes. He could not cry: he would ruin everything. 

“Do you love me?” Javert whispered. His voice, usually so coarse and deep had cracked over the words, weak. 

Valjean swallowed. The fear in that strong man almost broke him. He leant over Javert and kissed him on one cheek and then the other,

“You don’t have to say it,” Javert whispered, “I’d rather you be honest.”

Valjean shuffled onto his knees and then down onto his belly, lying over Javert tucking his face into the man’s neck.

“I love you,” he murmured, “too much.”

Javert’s hands came to rest on his back,

“Really?”

“Yes. It scares me.”

Javert trembled beneath him.

“It doesn’t scare me,” he answered, “I have never felt less afraid of anything.”

Now Valjean shuddered in his arms,

“Javert-”

Javert wrapped him in his arms,

“We will be like this forever,” he said, voice low and strong and sure once more.

“You can’t promise that.”

“I can,” Javert said, “when I set my mind to something I see it done. I always see it done. The world bends to the will of Inspector Javert,” Valjean could feel his grin as it jostled the hair on his crown, “don’t you doubt that.”

 

Those two who had never had much could have been quite content in that house with its very small, very old dusty sofa, and its creaky table barely big enough to seat two for breakfast. They could have lived without light, without fire, bringing in the water from the well at the end of the garden. They could have lived quite happily if only the world and all its injustices did not exist. They could have lived quite happily if they had both been born into the world only the month before and they neither had pasts. But they did have pasts, and Valjean’s past rested beneath his shirt, under the hands of Inspector Javert. 

They fell into a deep sleep together, uninhibited by rumpled clothes, nor cracks in windows that let in the cold. How little they had both had and how much they had now in this simple embrace. There was nothing that could satisfy the soul more than love, and nothing that the heart yearned for greater when it was lost. 

 

I wrote this in like a day, I'm so fucking powerful

Madeleine had avoided the Thernadier girls as much as possible once he had realised how much his presence upset them. He spent his free time instead giving Sister Simplice a rest from watching over Fantine and, while he prayed for her at her bedside, Sister Simplice had taken to reading to the girls as she read to Cosette. They already knew how to read and write, although their penmanship was poor, but they had begun to improve in the new household. Still, they hated Monsieur Madeleine with a passion and cursed him every night, praying at their bedsides for his downfall. Madeleine for his effort prayed for them and even pressured Javert to pray for them on occasion, although he groused and griped that God would not listen to his anyway.

The weeks passed and Madeleine settled with delight into the new domesticity of his small house in the countryside. Javert visited him more often but had not yet slept over. They were both terribly nervous and shy of approaching any new step in their relationship.

What Javert could not quite come to grips with was what the next step was. They had touched each other ‘there’, well, the Mayor had touched him and seemed satisfied by that. They had gone together on outings, eaten together in a romantic fashion, and had cuddled in bed. Even slept together! That is: fallen asleep together and woken up together. The next step, it seemed to Javert, was that they become engaged, but that simply was not possible. He thought it completely logical that they get married and found himself completely confounded at how the law could not have considered such a circumstance as his considering relations between men were legal. He would, of course, like to live with the Mayor but would that be possible if they weren’t married? How could they… do more than they had if they were not married? Did the rules of what was to be done before marriage and after marriage still apply if you could not legally get married? He did not bring these questions to the Mayor, he felt somehow secretive as if they should be for him only and that mentioning might ruin something somehow. Inspector Javert bent the world to his will, that was what he had promised the Mayor, and yet here he could not conceive of how he might do that.

Then came the day that he was to accompany the Thernadier girls to their new home in Paris. The youngest girl wept terribly again, clutching at her new sisters- including Cosette, who she had grown fond of without the influence of their parents- but her older sister remained stoic. The housekeeper embraced them both, as did her daughter, and they wept with the little girl. Eventually, Eponine took note of Javert’s impatience and grabbed her sister by the hand dragging her to the carriage. They set out. The Mayor had come to see them off but he stood at a respectful distance, refusing to upset them before their long journey. He had not eyes for Javert in that moment but Javert had eyes for him.

Javert’s trip to Paris was not long but in the measurement of lifetimes it was enough for new ones to begin and for Fantine’s to end. She died on the second day of his trip to Paris and Madeleine was alone to mourn her. He would have rather have wept into Javert’s chest but he wept into his own folded arms instead. He prayed for Fantine’s soul and paid for her funeral. The little girl was devastated: here she was having lost two new friends and her mother. Valjean too was mourning: he was witnessing the death of a dream. He had believed he might find some closure for the loss of his own family by reuniting mother and daughter; this simply could not be. He grieved the death of this dream, having, in truth, barely known Fantine at all. After a day or so he did as Javert would have wanted of him and he put his mind to practical activity: he wrote to his banker and had an account opened for Cosette where he deposited money for her so that she might have a good dowry and live well when she was older. He did the same for the housekeeper’s granddaughter and then the Thernadier girls. He hoped they would stay in the convent and find God but, if not, he would be prepared.

Then Javert returned. He was not personally moved by the death of Fantine but his heart ached for the Mayor who suffered terribly for it. For the first time he packed his bags to stay the night. How shy they both were and yet how eager for each other’s company.

“I have taken Monday off work,” he said into the Mayor’s hair as they embraced just inside the front door, “so I might be with you.”

“Thank you.”

“I have missed you,” he said,

“And I you. More than you know.”

“I have some good news,” Javert said, smiling, “although perhaps now is not a good time?”

The Mayor sighed heavily,

“Oh, Javert, I would welcome some good news.”

“Well, while I was in Paris, I visited my patron Chabouillet. I wanted to speak to him about my station here in M-sur-M,”

“Oh?”

“Yes, you see I was not given a timeline for my stay here, however, when I was sent to work in M-sur-M it was suggested to me that I would eventually return to Paris -and at the time that was what I desired more than anything-”

The Mayor looked up at him, heartbroken,

“You are to return to Paris? How is this good news?”

Javert grinned,

“No, here is the news: I spoke to Chabouillet and informed him I intended to stay here. I will not be going back to Paris. I will be remaining stationed here in M-sur-M until the end, I suppose, of your Mayoral career and then I will go with you wherever you go.”

The Mayor looked relieved for a moment and then he frowned,

“But what of your career?”

“What of it?”

“Would it not be better for you to be in a big city such as Paris? There is not much room here for you to excel. Will you not be bored?”

“With you? Never.”

“But how will you demonstrate your exceptionalism here in our sleepy town? How will you rise in your chosen field? How will you garner the acknowledgement you deserve?”

 

 “What are all these questions, Monsieur?” Javert chuckled holding him at arms-length and setting him a strange querying look, “Surely you should not be more concerned with my career than I am? Let me deal with that.”

The Mayor shook his head,

“Javert,” he said seriously, “you would grow to resent me. You would be bored. You would wish to exert yourself. You are a hardworking intelligent man who exults in a challenge- you cannot find that here.”

Javert scowled,

“Why can you not just be happy? I am laying the foundation for our future together! Would you rather I abandon you for Paris? So we might both be miserable apart? What do you want from me, Monsieur. Forgive my rudeness but sincerely: what could possibly make you happy?”

The Mayor stared at him for a second and then that handsome face fell and Javert sighed heavily and drew him into his arms again, saying,

“There, there, I am sorry. I am sorry. I did not mean to be unkind. I only- I was excited to tell you.”

“I didn’t mean to ruin your surprise,” the Mayor said, voice muffled against his chest, “I just don’t want to ruin your career.”

“You cannot ruin my career, Monsieur, only I can do that. You know I am stubborn.”

“Then I do not want you to ruin it on my behalf.”

“It would not be ruined. Besides, it would be limited at most. Which is fine. I would be content to limit my career on our behalf.”

He paused and then he tucked his chin down against the Mayor’s hair,

“That is… if I have not been too presumptuous? You would want me to stay here with you?”

“Of course!” the Mayor cried squeezing him in a bruising grip, “Javert! I would not be parted from you! My concern is not for having you but for having you unhappy.”

“Well then,” Javert said grinning, “know you have me happy.”

“I want to make you happy,” the Mayor murmured, almost too quiet to hear, “but I fear you will one day resent me. I could not bear it if one day you turned and looked at me and I saw in your eyes that I had robbed you of your dreams.”

“Let’s go to bed,” Javert said, seriously, “I’m not hungry. Are you?”

“No,” the Mayor said sadly, “I have no appetite.”

They went to the bedroom; it was small and at the back of the little house. It was too soon that they stood together in that low room, facing each other, fearful and hopeful.

“I-Javert, I have to tell you something,” the Mayor said, “I need you to know- I want you to be prepared- I… I do not take my nightshirt off ever. I would not have you lay your hands upon my back ever.”

Javert frowned down at him,

“What is your concern?”

The Mayor swallowed, his eyes dropped to Javert’s chest unable to meet his searching gaze,

“It is only… in my youth I… I was punished severely. My body… is deeply scarred. I am not a handsome man there. I do not like to think on my past although it haunts me- at my very back! My past is always at my very back, tormenting me.”

Javert hummed thoughtfully,

“Then there is something I must show you,” he said and without preamble he began to remove first his waistcoat and then his shirt and undershirt, unbuttoning and pulling it over his head.

“Here,” he said, turning his back.

There across the broad back were pale old scars,

“These are the marks of my youth,” Javert said, “I told you I grew up in a prison. I am proud to say I did not require much correction. The scars you see were my reward for one act of misbehaviour. I was whipped once and learned my lesson quickly I’ll tell you!”

He chuckled.

Madeleine did not chuckle.

“I’m sorry,” that soft man said, “May I?”

“Yes, of course. They’re old. I pay them no mind. There’s not emotional wound there.”

The Mayor’s broad, gentle hand touched his back and for only a second his body clenched at the touch and then he relaxed. The Mayor’s hand trailed over his skin, painting each scar with tenderness and then slowly moving down the slope of his short torso until it reached his belt. It touched him near his flank,

“And this one?”

“Stab wound. Expected in my line of work. Not serious. Well, could have been.”

His hand moved up to stroke over the muscle of Javert’s shoulder,

“And here?”

“Bullet. Now that was a painful one. I ducked, luckily, or something serious would have been damaged. Took me more than a year to recover full use of my arm. Regrettable oversight on my part that I got shot at all. I would not do it again, as I said: I learn my lessons quickly.”

“These are not the kinds of lessons a man shoulder ever have to learn,” the Mayor murmured, bringing both hands finally to rest on Javert’s back, “You’re tense.”

“I’m always tense. You must be tense to do my job.”

“You’re not at work tomorrow, do not be tense now.”

Javert chuckled again,

“Easier said than done, Monsieur. You know how I would wish to please you, I would follow any order but I doubt my muscles have that level of awareness.”

“Lay down then and let me rub your back.”

Javert indeed tensed then,

“I-” he paused, “I would take of my trousers to be comfortable, if that would be acceptable to you, Monsieur?”

The Mayor flushed deeply red,

“Yes,” he said very quietly and he averted his eyes.

Javert bent at the waist and took down his trousers, realised he had left his boots on and hopped about taking those off with his trousers around his knees. He studiously ignored the Mayor snickering. When he was done, he cupped himself shyly and then lay on his front on the bed. The weight of the Mayor dipped the bed as he sat beside Javert. They rested for a moment in silence, eyes averted and then the Mayor had the courage to clear his throat and say,

“May I touch you?”

“Yes,” Javert said, voice low and rough.

Very gently those healing hands were laid upon him and he trembled at their touch. They rested first on his middle back, a burning touch, but then they began to move and slowly the Mayor adjusted his position on the bed so he might slide his hands up to rest on Javert’s shoulder blades. Finally, Javert grew brave enough to look back at him and their eyes met. The Mayor smiled shyly and Javert blushed and very shyly smiled back. The Mayor’s hands began their exploration of the musculature of his back, pressing and seeking knots and grinding them with his thumbs. Javert shivered, skin pimpling with cold and with the heat of the Mayor’s touches.

“You always call me Monsieur,” the Mayor said. Javert grunted,

“What?”

“Were you falling asleep? I forget you had a long journey,” the Mayor said with a soft smile, “the hair on your back is very cute. You really are a little dog.”

“Stop it. What was it you said?”

The Mayor blushed. He distracted Javert quite successfully by climbing to kneel on the bed and then swinging his leg over Javert’s hip to sit on his thighs. Javert flushed as those big square hands slid down to rest on his lower back. They moved lower,

“Can I?”

“Please,” Javert whispered, eyes staring with such intensity they grew dry.

The Mayor’s hands slid over the swell of his arse and the thumbs gently pet the dark hair there,

“You’re indeed a hairy little dog. I asked why you always call me Monsieur.”

“Respect,” Javert said, grabbing at his thoughts and clutching onto them tight, “In my mind I always hold you in the highest respect.”

The Mayor smiled, then his hands began to do something that drove any and all rational thought from Javert’s mind: they began to firmly massage his ass. He swallowed heavily, pressing his face down into the pillow.

“I think you do it for yourself, Javert,” the Mayor rumbled, “I think you quite like being told what to do by a strong man in charge.”

“Quite like it!” Javert barked a laugh, “I love it.”

The Mayor chuckled and lay himself out over Javert’s back, pressing a kiss between his shoulder blades, Javert groaned, not from the kiss but from the rigid heat that pressed between his cheeks,

“Monsieur…” he growled.

“You’re beautiful,” the Mayor murmured, brushing his nose through the short hair on the back of Javert’s neck. His hands trailed down Javert’s flanks.

“Monsieur,” Javert growled, “I would have you have me in any way you want me.”

The Mayor did not answer, only trailed kisses down his neck, between his shoulder blades, slipping along his spine.

“What I’d give you,” Javert groaned, “whenever I think there is no greater depth I’d pull from for you I find there is more to give. There’s nothing you could take that I’d be ungrateful to give away.”

“What would you like, Javert?” The Mayor murmured, ghosting kisses over the scars on his back,

“Everything.”

“Specifically. Now.”

“Monsieur,” Javert murmured, pushing himself up onto his elbows so he could meet the man’s eyes, “Truthfully: to see you pleasured. You have done so much for me but I have never had the pleasure of seeing you enjoy me and what I would do.”

The Mayor stared at him, pale-faced,

“Would it be so bad?” Javert asked him, attempting to hide the hurt.

“It’s not you,” the Mayor said,

“You say that-”

“It is only… I am your superior. I give to you and that is one thing, it is right a superior should reward his inferior for good work but if I were to take from you… that would be wrong.”

“Tosh!”

“You cannot refuse me.”

“I would refuse you nothing.”

“Please,” the Mayor said, eyes begging. Javert conceded again,

“Fine,” he growled, then he paused, “Well then,” he said, “perhaps… we could watch each other?”

The Mayor flushed,

“Oh,” he said.

Javert too had flushed a deep red, “would that be acceptable to you?”

The Mayor nodded.

“Good then,” Javert said, “let me turn around then,” and the Mayor raised himself on his knees so that Javert might turn and he might seat himself again on Javert’s thighs once more.

They stared at each other and then very slowly the Mayor’s eyes slid down Javert’s ribs, his hairy stomach, and then to the erection that was still swelling, raising itself in interest. The Mayor licked his lips and Javert mirrored him. He reached out with trembling hands towards the bulge in the Mayor’s trousers, the Mayor caught him by his wrists.

“Please,” Javert whispered.

 

What was Valjean to do? Every instinct, every inch of flesh from his heart to his skin burned for Javert. Burned to touch him, to feel him, to taste him. He wanted nothing more than to possess Javert in completion, to own him and to be owned by him in a way that once would have raised violent rage and disgust in him. He wanted to bare his very soul to Javert and to find the man embraced it for all its failures as much its strengths. He too wished to take Javert’s soul into his heart and protect it, nurture it. Javert’s hands reached for him and he clasped them instinctively before they could touch him: he knew if they did, it would all fall apart. Every strength that kept him from spilling his heart and soul would vanish and he would lose the very love he breathed and bled. Instead, he guided Javert’s hand to rest either side of his thighs on the bed and he began to unbutton his own fly. Javert’s complaints were quickly silenced and he stared eagerly as Valjean exposed himself. He had been exposed many times in his life but never had he felt so raw and vulnerable. Javert’s breath caught in his throat and his dark eyes darkened,

“Beautiful,” he growled.

Valjean flushed with pleasure. He was different to Javert: shorter and fatter and a little part of him had feared Javert might not like it.

“It’s not as pretty as yours,” he said and Javert choked,

“It’s perfect,” he said, “I only wish you would let me touch it. I have never had a foreskin. How I’d like to touch you. You look so beautiful.”

Valjean chuckled nervously,

“Maybe tell me what you would like to do and I will do it for you?”

Javert groaned, head thumping back onto the pillow and then he raised it again just as quick, not wanting to miss an inch.

“One minute,” he panted, and he snatched at Valjean’s pillow to bunch them under his head so he might sit-up somewhat, “I want to see it,” he groaned.

“What would you like?” Valjean asked, smiling shyly. Javert panted, his tongue licked at his lips,

“Hold it in your hand?” he breathed, “Stroke the foreskin over it?”

Valjean took himself in hand, it had been many years since he had taken any time doing this and he felt a little nervous. He did as Javert asked stretching the foreskin over his head and massaging it over the end. His breath caught in his chest and he couldn’t help but bite his lip as the pleasure dragged at him like a tide.

“Like that,” Javert panted, “I’d love to touch- how I’d love to touch it. Can I touch myself?”

“Yes,” Valjean answered, “let’s do it together.”

Javert hands rushed to his cock, one cupping his balls. His eyes were wide and his lips hanging open. His nostrils flared,

“Tell me!” he panted, “Tell me!”

Valjean smiled,

“Be a good boy and touch it lightly for me,” he said, “just a little tickle,” he said, “there’s a good boy.”

Javert’s cock jumped in his hand and he began very gently to tease two fingers up the underside, stroking the thick vein. His thighs twitched,

“Like that?” he gasped,

“Yes,” Valjean assured him.

How pretty it was, Javert’s cock. How appealing it looked at him, how straight-backed it was, standing to attention like a dutiful servant. How eager it was to impress and please. Valjean realised he had been touching himself, stroking himself to the rhythm of Javert’s teasing fingers. He chuckled low and nervous with want. How easily Javert could pull him down into desire.

“Play with your balls,” Javert gasped, swallowing heavily, “I’d love to feel your balls, Monsieur. I’d love to weigh them. I’d love to stroke them. Monsieur,” he groaned as a thick dribble of precum beaded on his head and then began to slide down the underside of his cock,

“-Monsieur, I’d love to taste them.”

Valjean heard himself groan. He’d never made such an animal sound, not even when he had been an animal. He cupped his balls, drawing them forward so Javert might better see as he rolled them in his hand.

“Stroke it,” Valjean rumbled and Javert whined in relief and took himself firmly in hand, stroking up and down his length, twisting his fist around his head,

“Oh, Monsieur!” he gasped, “Ah! I’ve never admitted- I’m so ashamed! I’d love to taste you! Truthfully, you look delicious.”

Valjean’s whole body ached for release, he had matched Javert’s pace and he grit his teeth to stave off his orgasm. God help him, what power the man had over him. How beautiful he looked flushed red and wild-eyed, those pretty stomach muscles clenching and twitching.

“I want to taste you!” Javert panted, mouth falling open, “I’m so close, Monsieur, please!”

Valjean could not form words if he wanted to. He quite admired Javert’s ability to not shut up, even at the peak of pleasure. 

“Oh, please!” Javert cried, hand rushing over his painfully red, leaking prick, “Please-please, tell me I can! Give me permission! Please!”

“Come,” Valjean grunted and Javert arched under him, thighs and stomach clenching, face gurning in a look of almost pain and he shot with a low groan up his own stomach. That rugged, animal man whimpered and shook. Valjean had no time to warn him or even himself. He grunted in his chest and then he was shooting over Javert’s stomach and cock, striping the back of his still stroking fist. The noise Javert made was agonised and trailed off into a disbelieving whine. He had forced open his eyes to watch as Valjean’s hips bucked, as the head of his cock pumped into his fist and spit its’ spend over Javert’s bare skin. Javert sighed, shuddering and slumping down into the bed as Valjean’s cock finally surrendered its last drop and he folded over himself, shivering with his release.

“Was that good for you, Monsieur?” Javert rasped.

Valjean could not answer him. He was still scrabbling together his thoughts with the same desperation as a fisherman with a hole in his net. He brought up a hand and smeared the sweat from his brow. He grunted a noise of approval. Javert barked another laugh, shivering with the last of his pleasure,

“Truly,” he sighed, “it was very good for me. Perhaps one day you will overcome this barrier and let me touch you. How I would love to be the one to make you feel like that.”

Valjean chuckled,

“Javert,” he said, “I am starting to think if you touched me I would disappoint you very quickly.”

Javert laughed again, then he said,

“Are you okay? Would you like to lay besides me perhaps?”

“I am not sure I can move my legs yet.”

Grinning, Javert pushed himself up into a sit and wrapped his arms around Valjean to lower him to the bed where he flopped heavily on his side, one leg still slung over Javert’s. They lay like that besides each other breathing heavy sighs of relief.

“You’re falling asleep,” Javert said,

“N-” Valjean murmured, “You are.”

“You’re right,” he sighed, “I am.”

He pushed himself up and made his way across the room. After a moment, Valjean felt the cool, soothing touch of a cloth over his body. Then Javert’s lips touched his thigh,

“Thank you,” the man murmured.

Valjean hummed.

“Can I take your trousers and shoes off so you might sleep easier?” Javert asked; Valjean hummed in agreement.

 He was tired, he had never felt such an intense passion as he had there: watching Javert beneath him, flushed and agonised by pleasure. How good it had felt to feel and know it was he who caused it. How good it had felt to see Javert in ecstasy at the sight of him and his body in rapt pleasure. Touching themselves as if they were touching each other. He became slowly aware of Javert unbuttoning his waistcoat and he grabbed at his wrist with a grunt,

“Careful,” Javert whispered, “You’re strong. I’m just taking off your waistcoat and shirt. I will leave your undershirt like you asked. You won’t be comfortable sleeping otherwise.”

Valjean held strong for a moment and then slowly he released his grip. He trembled as Javert slid his waistcoat from him and then began to help him out of his shirt.

“What are you afraid of?” Javert murmured, “You have seen my scars.”

“It’s not the same,” he answered.

“Well,” Javert only said.

They climbed under the covers together. Valjean rumbled as he wrapped his arms around Javert and rolled the man onto his side so that he could curl around him, sliding his knee between Javert’s legs. Javert purred in his grip and pressed back into him. Valjean squeezed him in his arms as he nuzzled into the back of Javert’s neck. How perfectly they fit together. How right their bodies were, as though God himself had plucked them from each other and now they were healing that old wound. And how grateful he was that he had a lover as respectful as Javert, as willing to acquiesce to all of his unreasonable demands and regulations. Who did not demand answers but only embraced him as imperfect and awkward and insecure.

It was almost easy to forget the man did not know him at all. 

Valjean woke in the morning without fear. This was a strange and surreal feeling for it was accompanied by the reality of there being another presence in bed beside him. He grew instantly tense and opened his eyes. He struggled to discern what it was he was looking at for a long moment before he realised it was a matter of perspective: he was staring directly into Javert's forehead, and the warm air puffing over his neck and jaw was Javert's breath. The man had rolled over in the night and had pressed them front to front and face to face. Javert's arms and legs were wrapped tight around him and Valjean marvelled at how they had not gone numb beneath his weight. It took effort to pry Javert's locked hands apart and slowly begin to release himself (he feared those hands might feel his scars.) Javert growled in his sleep and Valjean had to suppress a giggle. He soothed him by pressing a little kiss to the broad expanse of his forehead. He began to slowly manoeuvre those long clutching arms again and the low rumble of a growl started up. Valjean pecked him again,

"Stay asleep you fearsome creature,"

Javert grunted,

"No."

 

Finally, he was free and he wrapped himself in a dressing gown, pushed on his slippers and went into the next room to prepare them breakfast. After some time Javert came stumbling in, rubbing his eyes and yawning,

“What are you doing up so early?” he grunted,

“Making eggs,” Valjean smiled.

Javert grunted again,

“What time is it?”

“Six.”

“You’re making eggs at six in the morning? Coffee?”

“Yes, there’s coffee, darling.”

Javert grinned, scrubbing at his eyes and went to where Valjean had prepared him a pot of coffee. He poured himself a cup and drained it in one gulp. Then he poured another and began more slowly to drink that.

“Feeling better?” Valjean chuckled,

“A little. You still haven’t explained who you’re awake at six in the morning making scrambled eggs.”

“I always wake up early, I’m afraid if you’re too sleep over more often, you’ll have to get used to it.”

“And on my day off too,” Javert groused. He ambled up behind Valjean and wrapped his long arms around him, tucking his thumbs in Valjean’s front belt loops, and laying his chin on Valjean’s shoulder in the crook of his neck.

“Your breath smells of coffee,” Valjean chuckled,

“Better than… something else…” he rumbled, “I missed you.”

“I have only been awake for a few minutes. The eggs are almost done, toast is on the table.”

Javert grunted again. He pressed a kiss to the side of Valjean’s neck and then slowly began to nuzzle kisses down. Valjean caught him before he could reach the ring of scarring around the base of his neck. He angled Javert back up and kissed him on the mouth. Javert smiled and then paused,

“You kissed me.”

Valjean also paused,

“Oh. Yes,” he said.

Javert took the eggs from the stovetop, wrapped his arms around Valjean and drew him away from the heat, turning him to position them chest-to-chest.

“I broke the rules,” Valjean said sadly,

“You did,” Javert said, tucking his chin into his neck.

“I’m sorry,” Valjean said.

“I suppose,” Javert said, “that we shall have to hold hands now.”

Valjean blinked at him,

“Oh,” he said, “You’re not disappointed?”

Javert laughed,

“I must be quite honest with you; I have been musing on how irrelevant those rules had become. They were founded with the goal of keeping me from becoming to believe you were in love with me-”

“Yes,”

“- and you have at this point told me you are in love with me.”

“Oh,” Valjean said, “Yes, I did say that. But you do so love rules and laws.”

Javert chuckled,

“But not so much as I love you.”

Valjean could not keep the adoration from his eyes if he had been aware of it at all,

“You do?” he said, awed,

“I do,” Javert said, smiling, “The eggs are getting cold.”

They ate cool scrambled eggs on toast while holding hands over the breakfast table.

 

“What should we get up to today?” Javert asked as he finished his second cup of coffee,

“I thought we could go for a walk in the forest.”

Javert snorted,

“And get ourselves lost in the forest in the middle of winter?”

“If you wish, but I would rather make a round route and come home for lunch.”

Javert chuckled,

“Alright, if you insist.”

They wrapped themselves up warm, unnecessarily adjusting each other’s scarves and coats just to touch each other, pulled their hats low over their ears and headed out together. When Valjean had finished locking up the door Javert offered him his gloved hand and they linked arms and then entwined fingers, blushing with cold and happiness at the simple act. They sidled through the forest, eventually following the path of a little trickling stream,

“I think this could be quite the stream if it were cared for,” Valjean said,

“You think everything could be perfect if only it were tended to by someone.”

“Well, I am right.”

Javert huffed a chuckle,

“Sometimes I believe you.”

Eventually, Javert pulled them to a forceful stop and smiled down at Valjean indulgently,

“We have to stop now,” he said, “it’s cold.”

“But,” Valjean attempted, “the birds are singing,”

“They are, they will be singing at the house too. We’ve walked miles. Let’s walk miles back.”

“How can I convince you?”

“You can kiss me thoroughly until I can’t think.”

Valjean flushed, scandalised,

“In public!”

“In the middle of the frozen woods where no one will see us.”

He pulled Valjean against him, pressing them together, as best he could when they were both cushioned by several layers of coats and jumpers, and leant down to kiss him. Valjean turned his hot face away so the kiss landed on his cheek.

“You can’t!” he gasped, “We’re in public!”

Javert grinned and leant in to kiss him again, swerving his aim at the last minute as Valjean turned his face and catching him squarely on the mouth,

“What a devil I am!” he grinned as Valjean puffed an angry breath at him, “You will have to take me home and punish me. Whatever shall you do to me? Make me sit and beg? Perhaps you should spank me like a naughty school boy?”

Valjean scowled at him, squatted down, wrapped his arms under the swell of Javert’s behind and then lifted him over his shoulder. Javert cried out in shock, scrabbling to cling to him in a panic,

“Monsieur!” he cried, “careful!”

“If you won’t take yourself home like a good boy, I will have to carry you home. I’ve seen it done before: an unfortunate owner carrying their lazy dog!”

“I’m not lazy!” Javert chuckled, “But I must admit now I’m here I don’t want to walk.”

He purred, smoothing his hands over Valjean’s shoulders and back,

“You are very strong.”

Valjean chuckled,

“Strong enough to handle a misbehaving dog.”

Javert purred and lay himself over Valjean’s shoulder, quite content to continue stroking the firm breadth of his back and shoulders.

When Valjean had grown quite weary (he was not as strong as he used to be, he was afraid to say- completely unaware of quite how ridiculous that statement was when comparing himself to a regular man) Javert had to regretfully walk for himself. They held hands again and grinned at each other in delight at doing so.

Valjean fumbled with cold fingers to unlock the front door, pushed it open and then hoisted Javert back into his arms carrying him, smiling, across the threshold. How happy they were laughing and playing, these two men who had never had reason to laugh or play before. Valjean deposited him in the bedroom, flopping him onto his back on the bed and pulled off his long boots for him. Javert sat up and with icy fingers began to unbutton Valjean’s heavy coat. They giggled together, pressing exploratory and gentle kisses to each other’s lips as they stripped each other of their heavy winter-wear. Eventually, Javert got Valjean down to his shirt and trousers and Valjean pushed him roughly down onto his back so he could peel down Javert’s trousers. Javert covered his smile shyly, blushing as his semi bounced free. Valjean leant over him and pressed a kiss to his hairy thigh. They smiled at each other.

“What should I do with you?” Valjean asked, mock serious. Javert grinned,

“I don’t know.”

“I think you quite deviously planned this all along,” Valjean said, putting his hands on his hips and frowning at him, not quite managing to keep the smile from turning up the corner of his lips. Javert’s stiffening cock betrayed him.

“I think,” Valjean said, placing his hands firmly upon Javert’s thighs, “That you have had quite the idea percolating in your mind, Inspector.”

Javert trembled,

“And what would that be?”

“Stand up,” Valjean said and Javert scrambled to his feet.

Valjean hid his smirk as he kicked off his shoes and dropped his trousers, folding and hanging them over the back of a chair. Javert chewed his bottom lip, eyes hot and staring.

Valjean sat himself on the edge of the bed and patted his lap,

“Lie down,” he said firmly. Javert grinned and lay himself over Valjean’s thighs, wriggling against him. Valjean chuckled, reached beneath Javert’s soft hairy stomach and clasped his cock (Javert gasped) and slid it between his thighs, “There,” he said, “out of the way.”

“Now,” He continued, resting his hand on Javert’s firm, round behind, “I think it’s time for that thorough spanking you require.”

“Oh, yes,” Javert groaned, grasping at Valjean’s calf and knotting his other hand in the bedsheets in preparation.

Valjean chuckled,

“You really are an open book.”

“Too honest for my own good,” he panted, breathless and eager.

Valjean stroked his hand over the downy dark hair, enjoying the feeling of the full firm flesh, but he couldn’t keep from Javert what he wanted; he could deny the man nothing. He lifted his hand and brought it down with a hard smack. Javert groaned under him, hips jolting forward. There was that hot member thrusting between his thighs. Valjean could not deny he enjoyed the feeling. Javert’s hips arched, offering himself for the next strike,

“Come, Monsieur, show me you know so much of justice as you know of mercy. I’ve earned my punishment, haven’t I?”

Valjean chuckled and spanked him again, leaving no pause for preparation and then gave him another quickly. Javert groaned with every strike of his hand, arching back as soon as his hips had jolted forward. His leg stumbled to find its footing, the thigh muscle trembling. He hung his head,

“Not too strong for you?” Valjean asked him,

“No-” he panted, “No, no, please- more, Monsieur.”

It wasn’t so bad to find a rhythm. He had thought himself unable to strike another but when such a touch brought so great pleasure and indeed little pain? Would this touch doom his soul? It was not a thought that had space to enter his mind for Javert’s body thrust down against his own with every strike, the man’s stomach grinding against Valjean’s hard cock. He could think of little else than that sweet pleasure and the accompany moans and whimpers that fell from Javert’s lips as he hung his head, practically vibrating with desire.

“There,” Valjean grunted, voice rough with lust, “I have successfully reddened this devil’s behind.”

Javert groaned,

“Oh, Monsieur,” he rolled his hips, sliding his precome slick prick between Valjean’s thighs, “Thank you, oh, thank you.”

Valjean smiled at him with such fond affection and very gently began to pet his hair as if stroking the head of a dog,

“You really are a very easy dog to be a master of,” he said.

Javert tilted his head to look up at him. His face was pink-red and his cheeks and eyes wet with tears. Valjean frowned and gently cupped his face,

“I made you cry,” he murmured.

Javert only twisted a little more and tenderly began to lap at his fingers. Valjean watched him, heart full, and then very gently he began to massage that sore red behind until Javert was wriggling and panting in his lap.

“That is nice?” he rumbled and Javert, breathless and gritting his teeth nodded, “tell me what you’d like,” Valjean continued, “Tell me how you would like to reach release.”

Javert shook,

“Oh,” he gasped, “ohhh…”

Valjean had asked him too much. His brain was so hot, his thoughts so bare, he knew nothing but the sweet hot lust of his body and the firm tightness of Valjean’s thighs embracing his cock.

Valjean was patient with him. He merely continued to pet him, moving to pet his hair again and then long strokes down the length of his back. Javert whimpered,

“Oh, there’s something I’d want- I wouldn’t- I wouldn’t be a bad boy for asking more?”

“No,” Valjean said kindly, “You wouldn’t be a bad boy for asking for what you’d like. You’ve been very good.”

Javert trembled,

“I’d like you inside of me, Monsieur.”

Valjean paled,

“I couldn’t-” he said,

“I know!” Javert said quickly, “I know, I don’t mean your cock, I know what you said. I know, in prison, it is a harsh painful thing but in my career I have seen,” he grew shy, “I have seen men put other things in each other for pleasure.”

“It is not a thing of love,” Valjean said seriously, “It is a way men hurt each other.”

“Not always! Not always! And not if it is done from love! I am strong, I could take it.”

He said this so desperately that Valjean could not help but sigh and cup his chin,

“Tell me then: what would you have me do?”

Javert shook, skin goose-pimpling,

“Oil,” he panted, “do you have olive oil?”

“Yes. In the kitchen,” he said, and he gave Javert another light spank on his rear, “go and get it for me.”

Javert jumped up, wobbled, grinned at him and then ran with all the grace of a new-born foal out of the room. He returned a few moments later with the bottle and handed it to Valjean before laying himself back over Valjean’s legs, tucking his cock between Valjean’s slick thighs.

“Now what?” Valjean said, frowning at him just holding the bottle. 

“Now you slick your fingers with it and you touch me… there,” Javert swallowed heavily.

“Have you done this before?” Valjean asked, pouring the oil on his fingers and cursing as some of it dribbled over Javert’s behind. The way Javert arched on his lap suggested this was not so bad a thing.

“And,” Valjean said, smiling indulgently, “Where exactly should my fingers go?”

Javert grumbled to himself and then said,

“You know… there.”

“Where?”

“There!”

“You will have to use your words, my dear, I don’t speak growl and grumble.”

Javert huffed. He lifted his sore red behind and said,

“My behind, Monsieur. I would have you put your fingers inside of me.”

“Very good,” Valjean said, petting his rump, “You asked very nicely.”

He placed both hands on Javert’s cheeks and with a little shyness, which he tried to hide with promptness, he parted them. There was that dark trail of black hair that like a river formed a lake around that secret hidden place they were both too shy to truly name. He touched a finger there lightly and stroked it. Javert gasped. Valjean took this as a good sign and very gently and very curiously began to explore this new place. He touched lightly, first with one finger and then with two, experimenting with pressure and then with drag as he tested opening that ring of muscle. Javert began to writhe again in his lap, his breath coming laboured, his body arching, he pushed himself back on Valjean’s fingers and they both gasped as they sunk in up to the first knuckle. Valjean slid them out,

“Too much?” he said,

“No!” Javert growled, “Not enough! More.”

Valjean chuckled, voice stretched taut between nervousness and desire. He pressed only one finger there and pushed inside. That muscle resisted him at first but Javert did not, pushing back on him to take him inside to the second knuckle. Javert groaned and turned his face so that Valjean might see the way his eyes had fluttered closed and his mouth had fallen open with pleasure,

“Please…” he whispered.

Valjean took his confidence and pressed his finger in to the knuckle before sliding it out until only the very tip remained. Javert shivered. He repeated the action and soon found the oil and repetition had slicked his way. He pressed in the second finger and Javert yelped,

“Too much?” He said quickly.

Javert shuddered,

“Keep going.”

Valjean did just that, breath catching in his throat as he watched Javert’s back arch and his skin shiver as his own two fingers pressed inside that strong, proud man’s body. What a pleasure that was to play that lean, muscular body, to twist and turn and watch Javert twist and turn in response. To hear those low rough growls of desire blend into whimpers and whines of need,

“Oh!” Javert cried, caught between thrusting his cock down between Valjean’s thighs and back onto his fingers, Oh, Monsieur! Ah, God!”

He threw his head back and, with great gentleness measured by great firmness, Valjean took his throat in his hand and squeezed it in a possessive grip. Javert cried out, eyes rolling in his head and Valjean felt that hot wet heat bursting between his thighs as Javert bucked madly against him, hips snapping and back muscles rippling, dripping with sweat. Finally, Javert slumped over his lap, limp, and Valjean continued very slowly to press and stroke inside of him until he was whining and trembling.

Soon Javert began to twist and writhe on his fingers again. He turned his face up to Valjean pleadingly, voice so broken he could not even form a word but only murmured a helpless plea of relief. This was too much for Valjean; he was finding he was only a man. He pushed at Javert and Javert dutifully slid from his lap, landing with a flop and thud on the floor between his master’s knees. He sat up and Valjean grabbed him by the back of his head and drew him forward to rub his own aching, leaking cock against Javert’s cheek. Javert kissed it eagerly and that was enough. Valjean cried out, a raw animal sound and burst over his face. How Javert moaned for him.

Poor Valjean, who had done exactly as he did not wish to do bucked and folded, shivering with the force of his orgasm. How could he, who savoured being a good and pure man, give himself over to such animal, bestial behaviour? Yet there was something animal in that man, Javert, and that animal nature called to him and drew from him that thing he so desperately despised and wished to repress. Feeling this great wave of shame Valjean dropped his face into his hands and began to weep. Javert’s hand came up and tentatively touched the back of Valjean’s own,

“What’s wrong?” he murmured, voice still rough from his helpless crying,

“I’m sorry,” Valjean sobbed, “I’m sorry. I should not have. I was so cruel. How lowly I treated you. I am so sorry…”

“You have nothing to ask forgiveness for,” Javert whispered, sliding his hands over Valjean’s own and to his hair which he pet gently in an attempt to soothe him, “You did only what I asked of you. Madeleine,” he whispered, “Jacques, I would trust no one else with my desires as I have trusted you. I give myself to you because I know you will do only as I wished.”

“I…I- you did not ask me to treat you with such disrespect.”

“Jacques,” he whispered, “look at me. Look at me and tell me if I am distressed or offended.”

Valjean shook his head,

“I cannot. I am sorry. I cannot see how I have shamed you.”

“I feel no shame. I feel pride. I feel pride that I have pleased you so and brought that pleasure out of you. It pleases me to know that I have roused such desire in you that you cannot control it- you, a man who is so dutifully in control of himself always. Monsieur, I am proud to be marked by your spend. It represents to me all that love and passion you feel for me and that I feel for you.”

“In prison-”

“In prison means nothing here. There is not love in that place; in this place there is only love.”

Those hairy, fearsome hands that had so often clutched like claws or talons now gently pried Valjean’s hands from his face, freeing his tearful gaze from the prison of his own fingers. Valjean met Javert’s eyes. How awful it first appeared to him to see how he had marked Javert so disrespectfully and, yet, how lovingly Javert looked at him in return. How contented and satisfied that look was. 

“You truly feel it is love I have marked you with?” Valjean asked,

“Is it not?”

“I felt it was lust, but I have never felt lust for any other and it is, I believe, because I love you.”

Javert cupped his face gently, stroked his cheek with this thumb as Valjean had done time and time to him,

“This is love between us. God knows I never thought I would experience such a thing. I thought I was incapable, or perhaps I was not destined for it, but I cannot say I would let any other touch me as you have. Nor do I regret anything we have done, or will do. To know you lust for me as I lust for you only warms my heart. I trust you completely.”

Valjean very gently cupped his face in return, drew him in and kissed him upon the lips.

“I would give you anything,” he said,

“And I you, if only you would learn to take it.”

 

The birds’ song danced through the window; the white sunlight painted a long rectangle across the floor. Neither of them had ever lay in bed in the afternoon before and they laughed at how bold they were. They kissed each other and held each other and slowly all of the fear and shame slid away. They eventually got up and prepared a dinner together. Well, Valjean prepared the dinner and Javert hung over him, clinging him and kissing him. When the food was cooking independently, they sat together and Valjean read to Javert from his library while he combed his fingers through his hair. How simple these activities were and yet how quickly and easily the time passed and they found themselves lamenting the dimming of the sunlight. They ate dinner together and washed the dishes together and then prepared themselves for bed in a solemn grief for their mutual return to work the next day. Yet, what a small complaint this was in a life of perpetual ecstasies.

What heaven their life would be if only Madeleine had known that somewhere in a sweet garden Fantine was playing with her daughter in her arms.

For all the pain she had been through the little girl Cosette had remained somehow resilient. She was capable even of happiness when Madeleine visited her and took her out to have brunch or to walk by the sea. She clung to him and still called him Père Noël and kissed his cheek. What a heaven on earth was it to be loved on one side with passion and adoration and on the other with sweet innocence and devotion. There was no more love in the world that Madeleine could ask for. He wanted for nothing and was given everything. He felt as though he were drowning in blessings he did not deserve. 

But only God’s Heaven is eternal.

On an average morning of a predictable week Javert was awoken by the pushing of a letter beneath his door. He dragged himself out of bed, having slept poorly without the Mayor’s arms to hold him, and bent to pick it up. It was a thin, regular letter of which no aspect was of interest. He sat on the edge of his bed, in his nightshirt, and opened it to read. He read it very seriously. None of the contents reflected on his face. He stood up. He moved to sit at the desk where he read the letter again from the beginning. It was not very long. He closed the letter and stared at the blank side of the paper in silence. He moved a hand to cover his mouth. He moved it to tug at his whiskers. He opened the letter and glanced over it again. He put it down on the desk and rose to pace back and forth across the floor, both hands tugging at his whiskers. He smoothed them over his hair and then tugged at that until it stood in mad spikes upon his head. He stopped pacing and seemed to calm as if he had come to a conclusion. He turned and found his trousers and pulled them on. Then he paused. He went back and read the letter again. He began to pace once more. He stopped and slapped his forehead as if coming to a grand realisation. Then he frowned once more. He bared his teeth, he shuddered horrendously, he hung his head. His arms hung at his sides limp. He stared at the floor with blank eyes. He finally moved to put on his shirt, vest and jacket. Then he took the letter and folded it into his inside pocket. He pulled on his coat and placed his top hat on his head. He left his rooms as solemn as if he were going to a funeral.

At the end of the day his feet took him to the Mayor’s office as they always did. The Mayor welcomed and embraced him in privacy and Javert pressed a kiss to his cheek but did not embrace him back. The Mayor looked worried as he drew away,

“Javert?” he said.

Javert reached into his pocket and removed the folded letter.

“Monsieur,” he said, “Please read.”

The Mayor opened the letter and began to read it. His brows drew down into a deep furrow. When he looked up at Javert he looked up with fear and anxiety,

“Javert,” he whispered,

“Yes, Monsieur,” Javert said,

“There is no place for argument?” The Mayor said.

“No, Monsieur.”

The Mayor bowed his head,

“The when will you be expected to return to Paris?”

“Monsieur,” Javert said, desperately, grabbing at the Mayor’s hands, “Monsieur, I will not leave you. I have been thinking on this all day! Chabouillet demands I return, my heart demands I stay- I choose my heart.”

“Perhaps you could go,” the Mayor says, “and then return when you are finished with whatever he needs?”

“No,” Javert said, “He wants me to return to work there ongoing. He was not happy with my statement I wished to stay here; it reflects badly on him having his protege hide away in a sleepy little town like M-Sur-M. No, there is only one option: I will retire from the police force.”

“Javert!” The Mayor cried, “You cannot! It is your life! It is your passion! Your purpose! You could not abandon that for me! I will not let you.”

“Monsieur!” Javert insists, “I could not bear to be apart from you and would not ask you to leave your home, I could not do that. I would not do that. I am relatively young, fit and strong, I will find new work in M-Sur-M. My life is devoted to you, work will be work for me. I would feel no shame being a common labourer.”

There were tears in the Mayor’s gentle eyes,

“I could not do that to you,” he whispered, “everything you have done… how hard you have worked… all your life devoted to making yourself a man worthy of respect, of devoting your life to serving society and trying to uphold law. And how hard you have worked to become more merciful! I could not take that from you, I could not. I could not take your life from you.”

“Yes, it would cause me pain,” Javert said, “I have not thought easily on it. I know I will grieve; I know some part of the old Javert will die but I am not so afraid of it. Some part of the old Javert has died already so that my love for you might grow in its place.”

“That little boy,” the Mayor said, “all he dreamed of was to be a policeman! That was his freedom! The law that bird’s wings!”

The Mayor shook his head furiously, his eyes squeezed closed. He pulled his hands from Javert’s and raised them to cover his ears. Javert grabbed at his wrists and attempted to pull them away,

“Listen to me!” he urged, “It will not be so bad! I might be a farmer or a grave-digger or do any number of labouring jobs! It would not be so bad! It would not be so bad! There’s no shame in tending fields or trimming trees!”

“You cannot!” The Mayor cried, eyes opening, filled with tears, “I am Jean Valjean!”

Javert stared at him. He laughed. He said,

“No!” in an amused disbelief.

The Mayor stared at him.

“I am Jean Valjean,” he whispered.

Javert released his wrists. He stared at him. He blinked. He turned and walked the length of the room. He stared at the wall. He turned to the Mayor and said,

“You jest.”

The Mayor shook his head.

Javert turned his back again and stared at the wall. He looked at the Mayor and said,

“You mock me.”

The Mayor shook his head. His eyes had welled with tears. Javert turned his face away once more. He trembled. He looked at the Mayor again and snarled,

“You lie.”

The Mayor shook his head a final time.

Javert howled. It was the scream of a wild animal. Of a wolf with its foot in a trap. He folded over on himself, he snatched at the hair on his head and scratched at his scalp. He looked up and said,

“You are a liar!”

Jean Valjean said nothing.

Javert had gone red in the face, he paled, he turned red again. His eyes bulged in his skull, he howled,

“You lie! You are a liar!”

Jean Valjean still said nothing.

Javert rose and stalked towards him, he reached out his claws as if to grab him but could not bear to touch him. He snarled, he foamed at the mouth, the veins in his eyes bulged red,

“You are- you are a-” he could not find the words, he said, “I hate you! I hate you! You are a liar! You have lied to me! You have tricked me! You have laughed at me!”

“No!” Valjean said at last, “No! I have never laughed at you!”

“You are a liar! You made me believe I could be loved! You made me believe you loved me!”

“I do!”

“Oooooh, and all this time you have been laughing at me!” Javert grinned, a manic toothy grin of agony, “You have been mocking me behind my back. You have been saying here is my jailor turned my prisoner! Here is that man I hated brought low!”

“Never!” Valjean cried, grabbing his arms. Javert wrenched himself away,

“Don’t touch me!”

He trembled, he wished that Valjean had held onto him tighter. He wished that Valjean had not let him go at all. He spat,

“I hate you! You disgust me! You are a monster,” he snarled.

How convincing the tears in Valjean’s eyes looked, how believably his lip quivered, how loving he truly sounded when he said,

“I do love you,” in such a quiet and tender voice, “I have never mocked you. I have never laughed at you.”

“You are the most wicked and evil creature,” Javert said, solemnly, “I have never met a more evil creature. To do this to a man. To have… the thought of what I have let you do to me makes me sick. Don’t touch me. Don’t look at me. Do not talk to me. You will not see me again. I will go to Paris.”

Javert stared at that man. He both loathed him and wished him to speak, wished him to beg and cling to Javert and cry out that he stay. Simultaneously, the thought of being touched made his stomach convulse. He wanted to cry; he could not bear to make himself vulnerable again in front of this man. In front of this man who had given him a heart only to break it, who had lied and manipulated to such a Machiavellian degree, all for revenge on but a lowly guard. He shook and felt weak. He wanted nothing more than to collapse in those powerful arms and forget what he had heard. What a Heaven he had been in and now he plummeted directly into Hell.

He turned his face away from that angelic devil and left.

Javert went mechanically to his rooms. He was in the depths of despair, the ecstasy of his love now matched by the agony of his hate. Worst of all: that hate had not replaced that love. No, they met and matched equally and as they fought in his heart ripped and tore it to pieces. The man he loved had never existed, the man he loved that been a disguise a wicked vengeful creature had worn to degrade him, to defile him. How had been such a fool? How had he believed he could ever be loved in such a way? Yes, truly: it was Javert he should be angry with, Javert that imbecile who would so willingly believe anyone might look upon him and think him worthy of their heart. His hatred turned on himself and he scratched and gouged himself, frothing at the mouth and gnashing his teeth. How he hated himself, how he hated the Mayor, how he loved the Mayor, how terrified he was of Jean Valjean! A demon clothed in flesh! What kind of evil was it to do what he had done to Javert! To make him doubt his own mind, his own senses, his own intellect, his own instinct. To turn him completely into a slave to evil. To tell him time and time again: you are not good enough, you must change yourself, and all the while to be doing it to break the man down. To make a game of taking everything of Javert apart piece by piece, to see what he would do when brought low by lies.

And what now? No doubt he would write to Chabouillet and reveal Javert’s true nature. Ruin his career as he had ruined his life.

Or worse. Perhaps he would keep it secret and leave Javert living the life of a coward, tormented by that knowledge they shared. He wept bitterly and the more so because he hated himself for shedding the tears.

He resolved he had been a fool. There was only one thing that would stop the agony of his heart and that was to kill it. He had been wise once: he had thought to fall in love was a fool’s game. Once he had killed all love in his heart. He knew to do it again. He sat in silence, hunched over his knees. Still that love persisted. If only he could rip out his heart, he thought, how much happier he would be.

 

What could Jean Valjean do? How could he lie to that man, destroy that man he loved? He was mute: verbally and emotionally. He trembled. His feet took him home. He forgot to put on his coat. He did not feel the cold. He went inside, closed the door behind him and went into the living-room. He did not put on the fire. He collapsed into the sofa and fell into agonised tears. There were, for the first time, no thoughts in his mind. Only the face of Javert, that desperate terrible face warped by a look of indescribable pain. Valjean’s heart cried out for punishment. He begged God to bring him suffering. How could he atone for this sin? How could he have been so blind to think that their heaven had been real. He had never deserved it. He had proven it. He was a liar, a manipulator; he was indeed everything Javert believed him to be.

Eventually, he cried himself out. There was nothing left. The well of tears had run dry. He instead lay shivering. He realised he was lying in the dark. It occurred to him that Javert would arrest him and return him to jail; he found he was at peace with the idea. He thought, ‘if for some reason he does not arrest me, I will turn myself in.’ This was the mindset of Jean Valjean. He thought himself truly irredeemable. He wished himself to be punished even more vehemently than Javert did.

Having decided on this fate for himself he rose, lit the lanterns and the fireplace and set himself to work. He wrote letters to his assistant outlining his situation, the truth of it: that was a recidivist and would soon be returned to jail. He wrote to his banker and outlined his situation there too. He wrote to confirm that the accounts for the girls be transferred into their names so that the money might be protected, he wrote for there to be set up an account to supply Sister Simplice with the money to maintain the charity kitchen he ran that supplied the poor of M-sur-M with hot meals. He had an account set up in the name of his housekeeper and had money transferred into that so that she might withdraw it as she needed for her family. Then he wrote letters for those ladies outlining what he had done and how they might access the money. Finally, he wrote a series of letters explaining the running of his businesses and who should be put in charge of them when he was in jail. This was hardest of all for his trusted no one to make it an obvious choice.

When he was done, he was exhausted. He had no friends or loved ones to say goodbye to. There had been one once he would have said goodbye to but that man now sought his destruction. He thought he might say goodbye to Cosette but he was a coward and the thought of seeing her face twist in pain was too much for him. He decided that he must leave her life as suddenly as he had come into it. She would forget him, his voice first, and then his face, and she would be happy in her family completely.

He felt strangely content. As if he had died. There were no more worldly cares for him now, he knew his life was to end.

In this state of ultimate peace, he drew on his boots and coat and headed out into the softly falling rain. His feet took him into town and he wandered the streets, handing out any and all money he had on him, stopping only at the doors of the old Mayoral property and the home of Sister Simplice. He posted through the doors their letters and then took himself to post those letters to his banker and to put his letter to his administrators on his desk. What a weight each letter took from his shoulders. It seemed they each weighed a thousand pounds for with every deposit his steps lightened. He returned home feeling all the better for his outing.

It would have been better that he did not return at all, perhaps. No sooner had he stepped in through the door and set his eyes upon the still lit fireplace that he thought in an off-hand fashion: Javert must be in the kitchen. This thought struck him like a knife. He covered his eyes with his hand and staggered, suddenly weak. Only the wall kept him from falling to his knees and he rested there, breathing heavily. It was not so much that he might go to jail, that he could be at peace with, that he deserved, it was the thought of that life that had reeled out before him like an endless dream that wounded him. He had woken from that endless dream and found himself once more in a barren, cold world deprived of love. He held himself against that wall until his breathing had calmed and then he staggered on trembling legs to sit on the sofa. He rested his head between his knees and breathed in deeply until the world had stopped fading to black, then he lay there. He lay there until the firelight faded and all that remained was the crackling embers and the quiet thud of falling coals.

There was a knock at the door. He jolted up. Suddenly there was that fear again, that closing in of darkness, the impossible tightening of his chest as though he were already bound in fetters. A sweat broke out on his forehead and he shook. He was not afraid to see police officers, he was afraid to see Javert.

After a moment the knock came again and, now, he staggered up and across the room to open the door. The door swung open and he stared. There stood two women, shivering in the cold.

“I’m sorry to bother you,” the housekeeper said, “but you can’t scare an old woman like that.”

“We are cold, Monsieur,” Sister Simplice said, “would you be so kind to welcome in two travellers?”

Valjean stared at them in mute befuddlement. Then, as a fact of good manners, he stepped aside and let them go to the fireplace. The housekeeper, being a practical woman went straight to lighting the fire. Sister Simplice removed her cloak and sat herself demurely on the chair across from the sofa. Valjean closed the door and stood there blinking at them.

When the housekeeper had finally finished coaxing the fire back to life she rose, dusted off her dirty skirt and said,

“Well, Monsieur, no offence but you can tell a bachelor has been living here! I do not think you’ve swept these floors.”

“I’m sorry,” Valjean said.

She looked at him and her face crumpled,

“Oh, Monsieur,” she said, “come and sit. I’ll make tea.”

She covered her mouth and, ducking her head, went into the kitchen. Sister Simplice waited for him. He went slowly and sat opposite her, cold and barren of feeling.

“This isn’t an interrogation, Monsieur le Mayor, it is a visit from very concerned friends.”

Valjean shook,

“Do not call me that,” he whispered, “I have told you why you should not call me that.”

“Yes,” Sister Simplice, “You have said some worrying things, but nothing that God cannot forgive.”

“I do not believe you,” he said, voice barely able to raise above a mute tremble,

“Jesus had among his disciples’ women and men who had done worse.”

“No,” Valjean replied, “for God knows many more things I have done than you do.”

She looked sad to hear that,

“I see those things are tormenting you.”

“Yes. But I will be punished for them soon. I am waiting to be arrested.”

She nodded then she looked down at her hands, folded on her skirts. She seemed to take a minute to settle herself and then she looked up and said,

“May I pray for you, sir?”

He broke. He folded, face wrenching into a look of despair. He sobbed. The housekeeper came in, red-eyed, and she placed a tray with a tea set and pot on a little table,

“There,” she said, “there is nothing better to settle the nerves.”

Looking about she realised she could only sit beside him. She did just that and soon she was sobbing, covering her mouth, red eyes streaming. Valjean could not heed her, his powerful body shook and trembled, wracked with helpless sobs. He could see nothing beyond the streaming of his eyes and the agony of his heart. Sister Simplice did not cry, she only bowed her head and prayed for him. Soon the housekeeper calmed and she too bowed her head to pray. Valjean swallowed heavily, wiped his sticky wet face and bowed his head in prayer with them. The housekeeper reached out a hand and placed it over his and he quivered.

They remained like that for some time.

“You,” Valjean began, “you show me such kindness but you do not know of the depths of my wickedness.”

“We do not need to,” Sister Simplice, “only the knowing in your heart is required for your repentance.”

“That’s too much,” the housekeepers said, “you are not so bad as you demand we believe. What kindness you have done in this town! Not just to me but to everyone! And Old Fauchelevent! I would think saving his life buys you back a lifetime of misdeeds if you wanted them!”

She shook her head, growing quite red with aggravation,

“You are a good man!” she continued, “A good man! I don’t care how many years you were in jail or what your name is! God forbid, I make a man’s past any of my business! I judge him only on his deeds and yours are very good indeed.”

Valjean rubbed at his eyes with the back of his hand. He looked very much like a toddler who had fallen and was now being comforted by his grandmothers.

“Perhaps this will change your mind, for there is more I did not confess,”

“You may confess anything and you will be forgiven, Monsieur,” Sister Simplice said, “and if it does not comfort you to know you have God’s forgiveness you will have mine also.”

Valjean shivered,

“I have been in love,” he said, “and I have not lived as a bachelor. But I have been wicked. I have lied and deceived and manipulated and, truthfully, it is not thought of prison that tears at me but the knowledge that the man who comes to arrest me is the man who has possessed my heart.”

He covered his face in shame. The housekeeper looked shocked but Sister Simplice only crossed herself and said,

“You are forgiven.”

He looked up through his fingers,

“But-”

“But nothing,” she said, “for even Jesus kissed Judas. Love is God’s gift.”

“I don’t know about all that,” the housekeeper said, “but I will say you have seemed very happy and if that strange ugly man is what makes you happy all the better for him for there isn’t a woman mad enough to take him, I don’t think.”

Valjean stared at her then, after a moment he burst into desperate manic laughter. Yes! Indeed, he had been mad to fall in love with Javert! And he was still mad, for he loved him still! His laughter fell into sobbing tears. The two women prayed for him, closing their eyes so they might give him privacy. After a while he calmed once more.

There was a knock at the door.

There was no doubting what presence now stood beyond that door for a cool darkness had flooded across the room. Valjean rose and the housekeeper clutched at his hand as if to halt his progress towards the door. She squeezed it painfully tight, looking up at him with red and desperate eyes. He looked down at her with an expression of peace. She released her grip and he went to the door. He opened it. Javert stood there. They looked at each other. They could not have recognised each other if they passed each other in the streets: one had ascended to a saintly peace, the other was in the grips of a hellish torment.

“Jean Valjean,” Javert said, “You are under arrest.”

Jean Valjean bowed his head,

“Yes,” he said, “I am ready.”

He held out his wrists. Javert drew out his handcuffs and closed them around those wrists, pausing only to yank up the cuffs of his shirt so he might see the old scars. Valjean did not flinch. The women both rose,

“How dare you!” The housekeeper cried, “How dare you treat that good man like that!”

“Be quiet,” Javert said quietly, voice dangerously calm.

The two police officers who had stood behind him in mute shock turned pale with fear.

“I am in your care,” Valjean said, “and I go willingly.”

“You are in the care of the law,” Javert spat, “and soon will be in the kind care of Toulon!”

Then he stepped aside and said to his officers,

“Put him in the carriage and take him into M-sur-M. Lock him in the station. He will not attempt to escape.”

The men balked,

“Are you sur-”

“He will not try to escape! He knows I would find him, and it would be worse for him if I had to.”

The two men nodded and took Valjean by the elbows guiding him, still with an inherent dignity as was due a magistrate, to the carriage.

Javert stood alone in that house.

“Leave.” he said.

The housekeeper trembled as if she might launch herself at him,

“You’re a wicked man,” she said.

Sister Simplice took her arm and led her past him to the door. At that door, she turned and said,

“God forgives you, Monsieur.”

Javert did not acknowledge her. She closed the door behind them. He stood alone in that house.

His eyes roamed across the empty room, then with leaden feet he went to the back of that house and stepped into the bedroom. He stared at the bed. He trembled. This was the only visible reaction he showed. He went out into the back garden and looked out in the garden. There were recent footsteps in the snow leading into the forest, he followed them.

He followed them, shivering in the cold, until he came to that tree where they had stopped and where he had bent his head and kissed the Mayor’s pouting mouth. He trembled again. Anger and pain overwhelmed him. He shook and turned red in the face. He turned and stomped back to the house.

That overwhelming burst of emotion meant that he never realised that something had been recently buried at the base of that tree. It went undisturbed and soon the fresh snow covered any mark that might have shown its presence at all.


Jean Valjean returned to prison and Inspector Javert returned to Paris.




What a monster was Inspector Javert. How cruel, how feared by all of Paris. Brutal, merciless, unforgiving. He held a grudge; he hunted his prey without rest. He was, many said, a wolf in man’s guise; he was a black dog, a bad omen; he was the cursed son of a magic woman, he was the dark devil’s child. The most ruthless man in Paris prowled its streets day and night, tireless and determined to abuse every criminal he set his dark eye upon. Yes, he did not only arrest them but beat them too, man, woman, child, it concerned him not; each felt the heavy blow of his cane or fist. What a brute he was. How vile in countenance. God help you, they said his eye flashed with cold Hell’s fire when he laid it upon a criminal. He had gone away a man and returned a monster. Yes, so it had come to pass that all the good that blossomed and bloomed in him withered and died and a winter came upon the soul of Inspector Javert. 





He was filled and fuelled by hatred; he believed there to be no good in man and no good in himself. The working class dared not say his name for fear of inviting him, they called him only That Black Fellow; the middle class called him evil; the upper classes called him a Good ol’ boy. One evening he fractured a gamin’s skull with a blow from his cane and, after a solid year or darkness, his behaviour was curbed by his master who pulled in a strict reign on him. This was no act of kindness; it was from concern that his violence would make the police force look bad. Javert was restrained but the hatred in him still burned hot. Another year passed and this demon remained in chains and yet was still feared as deeply as before for all knew what lay beneath the muzzle on that fearsome wolf. 





Then one day, as he prepared for work, he glanced upon a newspaper and paused. He made without knowing it a mewl like a weak kitten. He lifted the paper and read it. It said as such:





Jean Valjean, false Mayor and recidivist, dies in accident.





Javert trembled. He grew pale and cold. He sat down immediately and began to write several letters. He wrote to the housekeeper and her family enquiring to the life of Cosette. He wrote to Sister Simplice enquiring on the standing of M-sur-M and its people. He finished writing, dropping blotches of blank ink on the edges of the paper, and put the pen down for his hand shook too much to write any more. He trembled all over, his breath came in short shallow gasps. He rose and paced the room at a great speed, as if to wear tracks in the floorboards. He went to his bed, climbed into it and drew the blankets over his head, curling and gripping at his knees. If a small child had lifted that blanket, then they would have screamed in terror for that year of wickedness had made a ghoul of Inspector Javert. His eyes were pitch black and bulging, his skin grey hued and gripping his cheekbones, his face sallow and gaunt. His nostrils had become like two great caverns, his whiskers had grown mad like two great forests, he hardly blinked. He could not be called human.




What he felt now was not a human emotion, it was instead the feeling that he was within his own heart, beating on those stone walls to get out, suffocated by his own emptiness. A great war was waging in him, a war between the deep cold blackness of his stone heart and the agonising pain of that part of him that had refused to die. That part of him that roused itself in sleep and painted his dreams with hateful images of pale skin and dark brown eyes, and soft pink lips that pressed against him. He dreamt of the warmth of a powerful body, of the tender touch of coarse hands. He hated his dreams: they were the dreams of a man not a machine. That was what Javert longed to be: a machine. That was what he endeavoured to imitate. He failed, of course, for machines do not hate. Machines do not hurt.




He posted his letters and returned to his work.





He received first the letter from the housekeeper. The first page and a half was a diatribe against him, the last section contained sparse information from which he gleaned that the girl Cosette had been collected by her long-forgotten grandfather. This pleased Javert but he did not know why. The reason was that this would have pleased Jean Valjean: he had wanted the girl to have a family. It took a little longer for Sister Simplice to write to him. He thought at first she had washed her hands of him and would not reply at all, but when the letter arrived he realised why the delay: it was incredibly long and dense. He took that letter home and read it one evening after work by candlelight. He read it and read it and his eyes grew dry and then wet and eventually he placed it down, hunched over his knees and wept. He had not thought he was capable of any more tears. 





In that letter Sister Simplice outlined the great decline of M-sur-M after it had been abandoned by its protector. She spoke of the creeping poverty, the mismanagement and collapse of the economy, the hunger, the fear, the violence, the bareness of the impoverished streets. She spoke also of how she had fought to maintain Monsieur Madeleine’s charitable foundations only to have that money he left stolen from her by the local council and police force who called it evidence. Everything Madeleine had made had collapsed, built on a weak foundation and missing its vital supports. Yes, the world had indeed rested on that man’s shoulders. She wrote also of how the friends of Madeleine had suffered in town. How she and the housekeeper’s family had been martyred for defending him. How the housekeeper’s money too had been taken and they had been left impoverished, all living together in one very small flat. How hard it had been for the woman to find work having staunchly maintained her support of the ex-Mayor. Yes, this heaven had become hell on earth.  





She did not say it but she did not need to say it: Javert knew he had dismantled that Heaven with his own hands. He had replaced it, brick by brick, good for evil. He wept bitterly. In a moment he gained perspective of all he had done in that year. 





He thought briefly of throwing himself in the Seine. There was something comforting about that thought for had not Valjean abandoned his life to the water?





This thought passed. Once again it had occurred to him on some primal level that this would displease Jean Valjean. Javert was on the precipice of realising that he still loved Jean Valjean, had always loved Jean Valjean, and would always love Jean Valjean. He did not quite reach the fall. 





It did not matter.





In a terrible act of transformation Javert’s soul deformed once more. Where once he had been wicked, now he became mild. Yes, he was not good, nor was he peaceful, but where before he beat, now he only cuffed with an open hand. Where once he would have hounded the most inconsequential creature, now they were spared his wrath. He once, in a sort of dissociative state, gave a gamin a sou. His behaviour shifted, and like the werewolf he was, Javert slowly began to transform from the beast to the man. This was no conscious act, just as his brutality had been an unconscious rebellion against his master Jean Valjean, so now his return was unconscious. Perhaps some part of him felt that if he were to do well enough, be good enough, that his master would return to him. Five years passed with Javert in this limbo between good and evil, alternating between deeds of mercy and acts of lawful brutality. Still, he remained a shadow of a man. 





One day, an average day, he was patrolling the streets of Paris when he came upon an old gentleman and his three granddaughters being harassed by a wretched creature. He swept in like the great black cloud he was and barked,





“Off him! You’ve had your fill of his pockets!” the beggar’s eyes bulged at the sight of him and then man’s lost leg miraculously recovered itself, slipping out of his trouser leg so that he didn’t need his cane at all to run away. Once Javert would have chased this man down and given him a real taste of a broken leg but that rage had softened and now he was filled only with a deep cold sadness. He stepped up to that family and said to the old man,





“Careful, Monsieur. These creatures would take your kindness and make you a fool.”





The old man had his face turned away and did not look at Javert as he spoke to him, the brim of his hat tipped over his eyes. This struck Javert as strange. He thought to himself: is something in this old man familiar? Then he realised there were eyes upon him, yes, they burned him. The older, dark girl was glowering at him with a look of fiery hatred. He frowned. She too seemed somewhat familiar. He tilted his head. Something was niggling at the back of his skull. The old man took his granddaughter by the arm and said in a hushed, fast way,





“Let us go, my dears.”





Javert tipped his hat to the gentleman.





He could not take his eyes from him as he walked away.





How did he know a decrepit old man? A bowed, weak old thing, frail and creeping along on a walking stick. A strange cold feeling passed over him as if he were being enveloped by the cold water of the sea. The dark girl turned and shot him a vile look over her shoulder. She should not have done this for he knew immediately who she was. Eponine Thernadier. His heart leapt into his throat. He trembled. His hand went loose on his cane and he dropped it. The old man jumped as if to flee and then recovered himself. A part of Javert made chase, yes, his mind leapt up and ran after that old man and fell to its knees before him and grabbed his coat and cried, ‘Master! Master!’ But, bodily, he was paralysed. He had received such a tremendous shock. 





That man had feared him. That bowed, whit- haired old man had jumped, had turned down his eyes in terror. Javert was a monster to him. Javert’s hand spasmed at his side, trying to clench around the cane he had long ago dropped. His eyes slowly dropped and he looked over those dirty paving stones until his eyes found that cane and he just stared at it, mute. He bent to pick it up and, when he rose, he found the old man gone. He was alone. 





He made the rest of his rounds hopeful and fearful of seeing that old man, but he did not. He turned the mystery in his mind. Three granddaughters, two were clear: the Thernadiers. The third? He was not sure. He went to the convent where the girls had been living, Petit-Picpus, and found that when they had become young women, they had decided they did not wish to become nuns and had left the order to live in the care of their grandfather. This jolted Javert. Cosette. So, Javert thought, that old man had collected all of his loves beneath his wing. All but Javert. This hurt him, not that Valjean had not come for him but because he knew absolutely why. He returned to his home and regretfully reflected on the events in M-sur-M.





Yes, he had hated Jean Valjean, had hated him for his lying and deception. Yet, when he thought to himself ‘What if he had been truthful?’ ‘What if he had been honest?’ He found himself reaching always the same answer: My actions would have been the same. Had Valjean been honest in the first: My actions would have been the same. Had he been honest after my love confession: My actions would have been the same. Had he been honest when he confessed his love for me: My actions would have been the same. All and all it had been Javert at fault. He had painted that man into a corner with his unwavering, merciless morality. There was no version of the past in which he could see he would hear Jean Valjean out. He had doomed them from the start. He who had wanted more than anything had been the sand he had built his dreams upon. 





It was right that Jean Valjean feared him, for what evidence was there that Javert would be any different this time around?





He thought to himself: I must find him. I must show him what I can be. I must make it right. If Jean Valjean could never love him again that was right, he did not deserve it. But once upon a time he had been willing to live his life loving and being unloved and he found that strength was still in him. There were cracks in his stone armour. There was beneath a small bud beginning to grow, but if it were to live it must survive that harsh winter than still battered his soul.





He turned his cunning instinct and ruthless determination to hunting Jean Valjean. 




He started with the girls. They had been dressed young like gentlewomen, that meant Valjean had money and had established himself in some fashion as a gentleman. He intended, no doubt, to marry those girls off to good husbands to ensure their future stability. He was a man always planning, always preparing for the worst and aiming for the best. For the girls to meet good husbands they must be out in the world. They could not move amongst the upper classes for they had no family ties and Valjean would not want to explain his money, so they must find some other way to encounter young men. Where might young men with little wit and a lot of money go? Those useless vagabonds who had too much time of their hands and too much generational money to worry their heads with responsibility in youth. There were not a tremendous number of places they might go.



He went to art galleries, he went to museums, he went to gardens, in fact, Javert visited more of Paris than he ever had in all his years of living there. He saw nothing of the places he visited, his eyes always were looking for one thing: for that old man with the white head and the three granddaughters. How he yearned to glance only on those white locks. 



Then one day he saw them. There in the yellow light of the sun was that noble gentleman, not bowed and bent as he had appeared before but straight-backed and dignified. There was pride in that man: the pride he took in his three fine daughters. Indeed, Javert thought, he had turned them out well. He had done good work. That man had always done good work. 



The dog wanted nothing more than to run to his master’s feet but Javert’s heart knew he did not deserve to bathe in that light. Instead, he stayed where he belonged, hiding in shadows, ducking behind trees. He watched that man with hungry, helpless eyes. How he wanted. Yes, he stood for hours in the shadow of the boughs of those straight trees as that man simply sat upon a bench and marvelled at the beauty of nature. How could he not? For what was Toulon but a place where birds didn’t sing, where flowers never bloomed? He had taken that from Valjean, he did not take it now.



What a healing power these walks had on Javert. How tender the stone of his heart became, weak and soft as if returning itself to clay. Jean Valjean shone like sunlight on the tender new growth of his heart. He found one day he had forgiven that man he loved everything. He wanted to tell him. He wanted to say: ‘You might wrong me again a thousand times over, I would accept it gratefully.’ Still, he did not approach, he only looked, wide-eyed and hopeful, wishing he might be spotted and called by his name to walk at his master’s side. Oh, how he longed that that man might whistle to him and pat his thigh. He was ready now, to be good. 



Then one day Jean Valjean did not arrive. And the next day Jean Valjean did not arrive. When he did not come on the third day, Javert was in agony. He was enraged. He thought it a wicked thing for fate to have shown him that sweet sight and ripped it from him again. He cursed himself his own cowardice. He said to himself: ‘If only you had approached him! If only you had given him your devotion!’ He noticed for the first time the young man that had stood not so far from him also behind the trees. He realised he had seen that young man many times before. 



This was how Inspector Javert came to know Marius Pontmercy and to strongly dislike him. 



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Javert took that boy by his shoulder in a steel vice-grip and turned him harshly,



“And what are you doing, hiding behind trees and spying on families?”



The boy turned ashen white upon meeting Javert’s face; yes, even he knew that man by his face. Javert had become quite popular amongst newspaper artists.



“I-I am-” the boy started but Javert cut him off,



“What are you? Some kind of peeper? Some kind of creeper? Spying on old men and little girls?”



The boy turned red now and he cried,



“No! I have not! She is of age!”



“She,” Javert sneered with satisfaction, “I see, and which one of these young ladies has caught our little spy’s eye?”



The boy had clamped his lips tight and he turned his face away,



“Monsieur,” he said seriously, “If you wish to detain me you must inform me of what you wish to charge me with.”



Javert almost laughed,



“What is your name and which is the girl you are courting?”



When he received nought but silence he tightened that fearsome grip,



“You will answer to Inspector Javert!”



The boy paled again and he said,



“I am Marius Pontmercy. I would have you know I am training as a lawyer. I will not be so easy a mark as some of those you have abused, Monsieur le Inspector.”



“A lawyer,” Javert smirked, “so you are a university boy. That is why you spend your time spying on girls rather than studying.”



“I do not,” Marius said, “I am an independent man. A respectable man.”



“Which of the girls?”



“Why does it matter to you, Monsieur?" the boy asked. His defiance lasted only a moment under the Inspector’s fearsome glare,



“I think you are lying,” Javert said, “that is why. Yes, you university students like to play at poverty but truly your clothes are worn, old, second-hand probably. You have turned your suit inside out, a man does not do that for fashion. You do not have the capital to be a university student.”



“I work,” Marius said, “and…”



“I have a vested interest in the family you spy on- speak up!”



The boy looked at him, his open eyes sparking with interest,



“I am of a respected family: Gillenormand. I am not any kind of pervert or criminal. You know the family that used to walk here? It is the fair girl I have taken to. She has looked my way, I believe, with affection and before she disappeared she dropped something.”



He began to rifle in his jacket pockets.



Javert’s face had twisted into a look of toothy contempt, still, he tipped his hat,



“Gillenormand,” he said with a barely concealed sneer, “an old and respectable name.”



At this the boy seemed to flush with anger but still he pulled the piece of fabric from his coat pocket and held it out,



“See here, she dropped it for me as a token. You will put in a good word for me, Monsieur? Now you know I am to be a lawyer and that I am living off my wages?”



Javert took the fabric from him and unfolded it; it was a handkerchief. He frowned as he looked over the inscription: U.F. He lifted to his nose and sniffed and was almost overcome with laughter,



“This was not left by a woman!”



The boy flushed again with indignity,



“What do you mean! Yes it was! She left it on her seat!”



“This is a man’s scent!” Javert barked. He lifted it again and breathed deeply, yes, a man’s scent he knew well.



The boy had paled and he brought his hand up to lay upon his brow,



“Oh,” he said quietly, “her father… so she has not left me a token and she is not my sweet Ursula…”



Javert laughed again,



“Ursula! Really? My god, boy, I am glad you are not training to be an Inspector.”



He turned his eyes then to that handkerchief and said,



“I am confiscating this…” he rubbed his thumb over those initials: U.F., so then there was his clue to Valjean’s new identity. 



The boy had been rubbing his brow in misery, he looked up and said,



“Yes, of course…” then, “but why?”



“You will tell me if you see that family again?” Javert said sternly. The boy frowned,



“Why? Do you wish to hurt them? I will not let you harm my sweet Ursu-” he caught himself with a blush, “Well, I will not let you hurt her.”



Javert frowned,



“Then let us come to a gentleman’s agreement: I will give you the name of your beau and you will give me any information you find on that family’s location?”



The boy’s eyes widened again in excitement,



“Yes! Well, as long as you promise me you mean them no harm.”



Javert scoffed,



“Of course not. I am no criminal. I only need to speak with that man.”



“I have seen you here many times before,” Marius said, eyes narrowing, “Why not speak with him then?”



Now it was Javert’s turn to flush and he said angrily,



“That is none of your business! Only know I mean the family no harm. Will you shake on it or no? I have other things to do.”



He stuck out his large hand. Marius looked at it cautiously as though it might bite him,



“Yes,” he said, “very well,” and they shook hands.



What an unholy alliance!



“Her name is Cosette,” Javert said, “and I doubt she would look down on your worn clothes.”



The boy flushed in delight at that,



“Then she is as good and kind as I imagine.”



Javert snorted, turned and walked away. He paused under the dancing shadow of great tree and turned,



“You might write to me at the prefecture,” he said, “or visit me there. Know, if I find the family, I will be true to our deal and assist you in meeting the girl.”



Marius nodded gravely,



“Yes, Monsieur le Inspector,” he said, “I am a man of my word.”



 



Besides the handkerchief Javert had nothing but Petite Picpus. He made the best of what he had. He returned to that convent where he battled nuns on the intellectual plane to determine any information he could glean. They gave him nothing. The lives of their past workers and girls were private. He asked then: what could he know? He told them what he knew: that a man and most likely a girl had come to stay here. This was exceptional: it was an exceptional thing for a man to be allowed into the convent and so something exceptional must have happened to allow it. They conceded this. Their gardener, a man sent to them to work, a man who had been injured and needed somewhere to heal his body and soul, had recommended a man as his brother. Javert smiled with a wide, animal satisfaction. He did not need to know this man’s name. He could begin to put together the ladder of events. To support his theories, he wrote to the government of M-sur-M for confirmation and went through his own journal. Fauchelevent. That was the name that was repeated. A man sent away to heal his body and soul, a man who owed the Mayor a grave debt; the kind of debt that would drive a man to do something exceptional. The F. in U.F. then was Fauchelevent. The U then remained a mystery. Still, he had a surname and that was a great benefit.



He began his investigation into public records for a Fauchelevent. There was one man he narrowed day on the unusualness of the first letter of the first name and the general age, give or take ten years: Ultime Fauchelevent. He knew of this man through his service in the National Guard. This man had an address registered. He went to it: abandoned, recently. He was frustrated. What timing! Only a week before and he would have stood on Jean Valjean's front step.



He returned to the police station, head hanging in defeat. How many hours had he spent bent over folders and books, deciphering curling scrawls and blotted pages. His eyes were dry and sore, his head ached, his face was grey-tinged from exhaustion. He had not slept. He had not eaten. Somehow he felt he must survive without the necessities of life, if only to show his submission to the will of eternity. If he appeased that will somewhat, or that God who he had not spoken to in sincerity in years, then perhaps they would see fit to unite him with his beloved victim. He must appease someone, with his deeds, he thought, for he could not appease himself. He took a day off work and after a deep, dreamless sleep he travelled further afield to the opposite side of Paris to haunt the places young men sought out young women. No luck. Again he was defeated. He began to feel that he was in a maze, turning again and again to blind corners, not knowing which direction to find his way out. He decided he had only one thing left to do. He went home.



On the floor of his room, he took a knee and bringing his hands up he pushed them together in supplication. For the first time since he had been a child Javert prayed with all of his heart. He prayed to God not for forgiveness for he felt it must be earned, but for the opportunity to express his regret and sincere apology to Jean Valjean. He asked not to be loved, he asked not for mercy, he asked not even for an ounce of sympathy, only that he get to stand before the man he loved and ease that fear and sadness from those bowed shoulders. He said: “God, if you do it not for me, do it for him. That man is a saint and could not do more good in your name. Amen.”



Javert prayed every day like this. He prayed every day in the morning, in the afternoon, and then at night. During the day he worked hard to improve his reputation in the eyes of the Holy Father. He did as many good deeds as possible, once again opened his pockets to every gamin he found- difficult because they feared him- and turned a blind eye to every first-time offender of a petty offense. He felt dreadful and choked on these acts but forced himself, turning his eyes up skyward at night and begging God for a sign that this was right. The newspapers, who had mocked him tremendously for his cruelty, now mocked him for his attempts at charity. He did not care. They could laugh at him all they liked. The upper classes might shake their heads, the middle classes might cast his acts in doubt, the poor might refuse to acknowledge them or even bleed him while they could; so be it.



Weeks passed like this. Javert pushed his boulder up the hill. He asked God: give me any sign. He asked God: If you are not acting for me, are you acting for him? He warned God: You best be looking after Jean Valjean!



Then a letter came. It was addressed to Inspector Javert of the Paris Prefecture. He took it eagerly into his office. He opened it. It was from Marius Pontmercy. It said:



“The sister of my beloved has befriended a friend of my friend. He says her name is Fauchelevent.”



Javert rolled his eyes, of course he already new this. Then he frowned and quickly wrote out a reply addressing it to the sender, he said:



“Introduce me.”



 



He met Marius in the park by the bench. Marius was uncomfortable in the company of Inspector Javert but this meant nothing to Javert, he thought only on what might be achieved by this meeting.



“My friend’s friend, Grantaire, has befriended the sister,” Marius said as they walked through the streets of Paris, “he… my friend’s friends, well, they are difficult. They might not be welcoming. I cannot confirm anyone will be. In likelihood I can confirm they will not be welcoming. You will have to be very respectful.”



“I don’t care,” Javert said, “your little friends are of no interest to me.”



Marius grimaced but did not argue.



Their feet brought them to The Cafe Musain. It was a small, slightly dingy place in a back street of Paris. The kind of place you would expect young troublemakers to gather.



Javert entered, ducking beneath the mantle and found himself immediately the victim of many unwelcoming eyes. His interest was only in the girl sitting amongst the group of wastrel boys. Marius stepped in behind him, cringing,



“These are my friends, Monsieur,” he said,



“You’ve dug up a corpse, Marius,” Grantaire said, “Is this because we mocked you for liking Napoleon? Have you summoned one of his legions from the grave to defend you?”



“I want to speak with Eponine Thernardier,” Javert said.



The girl’s expression did not change; it had been hateful even as he had stepped through the door.



“You’ve found yourself a suitor, Eponine. Old but poor, I would advise you to aim higher. Ugly too, like a bulldog bitten a bee.”



“Enough,” the blonde-haired boy said, eyes steely, “I know your countenance, Inspector. There is no crime being committed here: you are not needed.”



“I will speak with Eponine Thernadier.”



“You misunderstand,” he said, “You are not welcome here.”



Marius intervened, “He only wishes to speak-”



“With Eponine Thernadier!” Grantaire provided as if it were the refrain of a song, raising his glass. His friend’s motioned to quiet him. 



The girl rose,



“I don’t know her,” she said,



“I do,” Javert responded, “and she knows me.”



She said nothing.



“Perhaps she goes by a new name,” he said, “Eponine Fauchelevent.”



She started at that and then narrowed her eyes,



“What do you want?”



“To walk and talk with you only.”



“Why?”



“Privacy.”



“You ought to leave,” the blonde boy said,



“I would,” Javert said, “but not empty-handed. I have questions that require answers.”



“Your reputation proceeds you, Inspector,” she said, taking hold of her parasol. She approached but did not address him, no, she addressed Marius,



“Do you vouch for him?”



He paled but said,



“I don’t think he intends any harm.”



She sighed and then offered Javert her arm, not meeting his eye. He took it and they exited the building.


 


They began a slow walk back towards the park.



“What do you want, Inspector Javert? You’re right: I do remember you.”



“I saw it in your eyes. You hate me still. Because of your parents.”



She scoffed,



“No. Not because of my parents.”



He raised his brow at this but neither of them looked at one another as they walked. What a strange pair, the rod-straight shadow dressed like a corpse and the fair young lady with her baby-blue parasol over her shoulder and her lace hat.



“I forgave you long ago for my parents. You were right, when you said I was abandoning my sister like our father abandoned us. I justified myself I would have gone back for Azelma but I know I would not have. I would have been too afraid, too desperate to be free. I would have left her behind. You know, when my father abandoned us he did not just leave. He told our mother to hide with us and promised he would return. He said he would call out and pretend to be someone else and that we were to shout out to him in response so he could find us again when he found some way for us to escape. Of course, when we heard someone, our mother cried out but of course it was a policeman. Our father had led the police towards us and then turned away so we might prove a distraction. Our mother was enraged. How she attacked that police officer! She was a mad woman. Why wouldn’t she be? Her heart was breaking. I hate my father. I would have hated myself had I abandoned Azelma, even if she is annoying.”



She paused, breathing deeply in the free air of Paris,



“I don’t hate you for that. Monsieur Madeleine gave us education, a good life. You were right for that. But: you must know I am not stupid,”



She said this with a harsh contempt,



“You don’t think that when he showed up again with a new name and pretending he was our uncle that I wouldn’t be suspicious? That I wouldn’t remember him? Of course I did. So, I sent letters as soon as I could, oh yes, I sent letters to that old housekeeper I koshed over the head. She hates you, Monsieur,”



“I’m aware.”



“She told me everything. For every secret Monsieur Madeleine kept she spilled them all.”



“Does he know?”



“No, of course not. It makes him happy to think we’re all a happy family.”



“Are you?”



She turned to him then and fixed him with a dark fearsome look,



“We are,” she said, “So you’d better stay away. That is why I hate you. You destroyed that man’s life. You won’t hurt us again. I will have you, Inspector, don’t think because I grew up in a nunnery and wear a nice hat I won’t have you.”



He pursed his lips and breathed in deeply through his voluminous nostrils,



“That is a fair reason to hate me.”



She let him take her arm again and they continued walking.



 “What do you want then?” she said,



“To apologise.”



She scoffed,



“What good is that?”



That was a question that took him by surprise, he did not have an answer. He thought and said,



“I don’t know.”



She looked at him from the corner of her eye.



They finally reached the park together and took a turn about in the sun. What a strange thing, this was the first time Javert had been here and not skulking beneath the shade of the trees.



“You must be honest with me if you want something from me, Inspector.”



“What do you want to know?” he said gruffly,



“You must tell me what you’re really after.”



“I want to apologise to Monsieur Fauchelevent.”



“Don’t be stupid,” she said, “why should I believe that? After all these years?”



“Just because time has passed,” he said, voice low and bordering on anger, “doesn’t mean he has left my mind.”



She raised her brow at that,



“Why did you arrest him?”



“He was a recidivist.”



“And it didn’t matter he was your friend?”



“No,” he said, “not then.”



She harrumphed,



“Then you’re a bad friend.”



“It did not matter Azelma was your sister, you would have left her.”



She shot him a glare at that,



“But not to prison.”



“Yes,” he said, “I concede that. I concede of the two of us I am the worse. I concede that I have not lived as a man who asks forgiveness. I will concede that I do not deserve it. In truth, I do not seek it. When I saw him the other day, no, what was it? Weeks now; it feels like only the other day. When I saw him he was afraid of me,” his voice lowered to a murmur, “I do not want him afraid of me. He does not deserve to be afraid.”



“He is afraid,” she said, “he is always afraid. Not just of you.”



“But because of me.”



“And you care about that?”



“Yes, I care.”



“And do you think it would make him happier if he knew you regretted your selfishness, your horrible actions.”



He swallowed, gritting his teeth,



“I cannot say. I can only say I would see him happy if it were within my power.”



She hummed. They stopped and sat side by side on that bench where she had before sat with her new Papa.



“That boy Marius likes Cosette,” she said. Her eyes squinted, she turned to Javert and said,



“Do you think with time he could come to like me instead?”



He shook his head,



“No.”



She looked briefly and then grew stoic,



“Thank you for being honest with me.”



“He is a ninny anyway,” he said, “an absolute buffoon.”



She smiled,



“You’re probably right.”



“You are too intelligent for him,” he said, “I have spoken with you for five minutes and I know it. Do not waste your heart on a man undeserving. It is not everything to get married young. Find a man who is thoughtful and practical as you are.”



She scoffed,



“Who’d think you’d care?”



“I am not entirely without a heart.”



She scrutinised him then, while he looked studiously at some flowers that grew on a bush.



“I suppose not,” she said, “those are azaleas.”



“Thank you.”



“What do you want me to do then?” she said. He turned and looked at her,



“Would you tell me your address?”



She harrumphed,



“And what do I get?”



He scowled,



“You-”



“Careful,” she said, “I mean it, you are asking for a lot of trust.”



“What do you want?” he growled,



“I want to know about my mother,” she said very seriously, “what happened to her?”



Javert frowned,



“I don’t know.”



“Find out then,” she said, standing, “You know where you can find me. Then I’ll give you my address.”



She began to walk away,



“Are you sure you want to know?” he called.



She looked over her shoulder,



“Wouldn’t you?”



“No.”



She squinted at him and then shrugged,



“Find out or not. If you don’t bother don’t bother contacting me.”



Then she turned and walked clean away.



Javert clenched his fist on his knee. You could take the Thernadier from the name but not from the woman. 


No idea how long this fic will be because I keep accidentally adding subplots I need to resolve. If anyone seems out of character it's because I haven't finished the book and I'm too lazy to do research

Javert put his footwork now into tracking down Madame Thernadier. It was one thing to know when she was released and where from but it was another thing to track her after. Like many convicts she quickly disappeared having completed her parole. He found this intensely frustrating. He could at least, to some degree, rule out if she were dead by checking death registries. Of course, if she could not afford a burial that complicated things. He knew that if she was outside Paris he would never find her. He had to hope that, like many others, she had chosen that city to disappear into. He attempted to track the name Thernadier but as expected there was nothing. No doubt the woman had changed her name. He looked into nunneries and whore houses but found little. This took him several months. He found himself very frustrated. He had gathered himself some savings over the years he had been in Paris and he made use of some of his new-found goodwill with the gamin he had been charitable to. These street urchins now agreed to look on his behalf and he gave them each a handful of coins for their ongoing work.

Of course, it turned out that all of this money was wasted when he stopped one particular snotty little boy and placed a coin in his palm saying,

“I am looking for a Madame Thernadier, if you find her you will tell me.”

“I know her,” the little imp said, tugging up his waistband on his too-baggy trousers,

“You do?” Javert answered before he could cover his eagerness,

“‘Course, she’s my mum.”

This was like a slap to the face,

“You wanna arrest her?” the boy said, picking at his nose, voice slack with disinterest,

“No,” Javert said, “only to know about her.”

“What’d’you want to know? And how much is it worth to you?”

Javert laughed at this and laughed hard. Yes, indeed, this boy was a Thernadier.

He took the boy to a cafe and bought him a great quantity of food: sandwiches, cakes, and two hefty hot chocolates that marked the boy’s top lip with a heavy brown moustache. He burped and rubbed his eyes, lids heavy with exhaustion from eating such a large meal. His pockets jangled with Javert’s coins.

The boy told him this: That his name was Gavroche, that he didn’t know how old he was, that his family no longer went by Thernadier, that he saw his parents infrequently (they had no interest in children for children were expensive, and besides that the only love they had in their hearts was for their beloved kidnapped daughters) and that they lived in the Gorbeau House on the top floor. According to Gavroche they were very poor and spent all day writing letters. This bored Gavroche, he could not read and had no interest in it: it was not practical, besides, it made people less confident in giving you letters to carry. This was true, Javert had experienced this himself.

He did not tell Gavroche he knew his sisters, he did not tell Gavroche anything, only asked him where he might find him. Gavroche gave him the names of the streets where he could usually be found and- to Javert’s surprise- he found the boy frequented the Cafe Musain. This seemed a miraculous coincidence.

Javert took this information to Eponine. He did not mention Gavroche. Eponine received the information on her mother very seriously,

“You will look into her for me,” she said. Javert scowled,

“I have,”

“No,” she said, “you’ll go see her. Make sure she’s okay.”

Javert’s scowl deepened,

“I am not your errand boy, girl!”

She scoffed,

“I suppose you don’t want me to put in my good word with Papa, then?”

“You would blackmail me.”

“Don’t be dramatic. You’re terribly dramatic. You’re more dramatic than Azelma and you should hear how she screeches when I pinch her! Just go and see my mother for me, you don’t have to speak with her, just tell me what she looks like. Does she look well?”

“You will not bring that woman in Fauchelevent’s life?”

She grew very serious at that,

“No.” she said.

He nodded,

“Then I will help you… out of the kindness of my heart.”

She laughed at that a little.

“There is another thing…” he said,

She looked at him curiously,

“You know a boy called Gavroche?”

She scoffed again,

“That little toerag! That little rotter! I would hang him up by his toes if he were my little brother!”

“He is.”

She laughed, then she stared at him as if he had sprouted a new head, then she scowled,

“You jest.”

“I do not. He is Gavroche Thernadier.”

“His name is Jondrette!” she argued.

Javert’s eyes brightened,

“That is useful information to me! But despite that, he is your brother.”

She folded her arms over her chest and tucked her chin into her neck in a sulk, just like a teenager.

“Don’t sulk,” he said, “You’re too old to sulk.”

“I don’t want another sibling,”

“Too bad. You ask questions you occasionally get answers you don’t want. Accept it or stop asking questions.”

“Why are you always so-so-”

“Right?”

She shook her head,

“I definitely did not intend to say right. Annoying. You’re annoying. Well,” she sighed, “Will you go and see my mother?”

“Yes, I will and I ask nothing in return.”

“That’s my queue to give you our address,” she sighed again, “fine.”

She took out a slip of folded paper and handed it to him. It was an address. A cold sweat beaded on his forehead.

“And this is your current address? I won’t arrive and find the place abandoned?”

“No,” she said, “you need to trust me.”

 

Javert was afraid. He had what he wanted and it terrified him. He had no more excuses. He could no longer avoid the inevitable confrontation, that confrontation between himself and his victim, between himself and the physical embodiment of his crimes against humanity.

He fulfilled his part of the unholy bargain and supplied Marius the address. He felt dreadfully guilty for doing so and prayed doubly hard for God’s forgiveness.

For three days he teetered on the edge of inevitable. For three days he hid like the coward he was, quivering beneath the long shadow of Jean Valjean.

Then on the third night he went out into the darkness. He clothed himself in black, wrapped his scarf tight around his face, pulled the brim of his hat low and skulked his way through the streets of Paris to scope out the address. It was a house, deep-set in a garden, high-walled all round and fronted by a tall gate. A place for privacy. A fortress. He could tell it was inhabited only by the lights in the window. Those lights filled him both with relief and terror.

He came three nights in a row to No. 7 Rue de l'Homme-Armé in a coward’s pilgrimage, never trying to approach the gate, never trying to call out for access. He only lurked on the opposite side of the street, in the shadow of an alley, watching with deep longing and powerful fear as those lights flickered in the windows. How angry he grew with himself as he stood there night after night surrendering to his cowardice. How angry he grew at himself that he would not own up to his crimes, that he would not stride to that door and say: “I am sorry. I am guilty. Punish me. Forgive me. Do whatever eases you. I love you.” Worst of all was the fact that that ninny Marius Pontmercy had come two nights in a row and stood at the gate- at the gate! As though he were the boldest and bravest creature in creation! So far that ninny hadn’t spotted Javert at all and he was grateful for it, he would not want to have to explain his cowardice.

On this particular night there was a bright round moon out that cast its white light down on the garden, illuminating it. This turned out to be the perfect night for young love for the fair girl Cosette to come out walking in the garden. Marius clutched at the gate calling out in a half shout-whisper,

“Cosette! Cosette!”

She looked up fearfully,

“Who is there?”

“You do not know me,” he called, “well, you do not know me by name. I hope you remember: I am the boy from the park. The man from the park I mean; the gentleman from the park. We saw each other. You smiled at me? You remember me?”

“I remember you,” she said, “you are always reading your book…”

“Yes!”

“Upside down.”

“Oh, did I?”

“Yes,” she giggled. She approached the gate.

Foolish behaviour, Javert thought, this boy could be a killer for all she knew!

How disgusting it was, young love! It made him feel nauseous just listening to them giggling and asking the most inane questions: How did you know where to find me? Why did you come to see me? How do you know you love me, we’ve barely met? Javert was simultaneously bored to tears and green with envy. If only he were a braver man that could be him standing at the gate whispering sweetly to Jean Valjean! He took his letter from his pocket and stared at it hatefully. He had creased it. It was blotched and smeared and scrawling and now creased; he might as well not bother delivering it at all. He bumped the back of his head against the wall, pressing his eyes closed and gritting his teeth. He was seeking excuses. He was being a coward again. Did he really think that Valjean would hate him? No, he thought he would forgive him and worst of all: pity him. Pity him but without love. He lived in fear of that, of those eyes turned on him as if he were some pathetic animal with its foot in a trap. He clenched his hands into fists, wrinkling the letter further, and pushed himself off of the wall storming across the street.

The girl started at the sight of him and Marius jumped, turning to see the Inspector there.

“Oh,” she said as his face came into view, “You are that police officer who helped us those months ago. What are you doing here?”

Marius had paled but said nothing, as if they did not know each other. Javert shoved out his hand at her,

“Take this and give it to your father.”

She frowned and looked at his note,

“He is inside, would you like if I called him?”

“No!” Marius said quickly, “I wouldn’t want to meet him like this.”

Javert was relieved,

“No,” he said gruffly, waggling the letter, “just take it before I change my mind.”

She took it,

“Is there something wrong? Does Papa need the police’s help?”

“No,” he said, tipping the brim of his hat over his face to hide his blush, “it’s personal.”

He paused,

“And don’t tell him I gave it to you like this. Or, perhaps, say you found it somewhere on a walk or that someone gave it to you or…”

She looked at him curiously,

“Are you that gentleman Eponine has spoken about?”

He blushed,

“I don’t know,” he mumbled,

“She said you were very shy, well that’s not how she phrased it. I’ll put it on his dresser for him and pretend it wasn’t me.”

“Thank you,” he said, “for your discretion. If I… if I came back, would you tell me your impression of him? After he read it.”

“Of course!” she said delightedly, “I think it’s very exciting all this espionage. It’s like a Shakespeare play.”

“Oh, Cosette,” Marius said helplessly, “and would you let me visit again?”

“Of course!” she said pressing his hand, “well you’ve hardly been any trouble as a guest, you have not even had a cup of tea! I have to go, it’s cold now and I don’t usually stay out so late- goodnight!”

She stepped back, curtsied and then ran up the garden path into the bushes.

Marius turned to Javert crying,

“Did you have to? We were speaking so sweetly, how wonderful and romantic it- I am talking to you, Monsieur!”

Javert was walking away,

“Monsieur!” Marius called, “That’s very rude.”

Javert ignored him. His fists were clenched at his sides, they had to be, they were shaking. He was terrified.

He stormed home as if in a rage and threw himself into his bed fully clothed, burying his face in his pillow in a cruel mockery of that first day he had come home filled with love and the ecstasy of ignorance. His fate lay in the hands of a teenage girl. What madness was that? What wicked trick was it? God was making a joke of him, of his pain and love. He rolled onto his back and stared up into the rafters. God was giving him a chance at least. Why had he wasted it by scribbling so rapidly and carelessly? He could not even remember what he wrote. The best case scenario would be that Valjean would assume he was mad and disregard him. He threw his arm over his face, pouting. He would have given anything at that moment to be sitting before Valjean reading his face as he read Javert’s letter. If he had been there, he would have given anything to be anywhere else.

Like the coward he was, Javert did not return the next day. He went the day after. He waited until the girl came to the gate to see Marius- was he going to be bothering her every day? (Poor girl.) Then he approached, trembling hands shoved deep in his pockets and scarf covering his face. She looked up at him and Marius turned to frown deeply at him,

“Well,” Javert said gruffly as he came to a stop at the gate. She set him a helpless look,

“I am afraid I do not know what to tell you. I snuck the letter onto his dresser but I didn’t get to see him read it and he didn’t say anything about it- not even to ask how it got there. He has been very quiet but he often has these phases.”

Javert’s shoulders heaved in a sigh. His head hung.

“I see,” he said. He turned to go.

“Oh,” she said, “Don’t go! Wait there! Don’t look for afraid, I am not getting Papa. I’ll be right back.”

She ran up the path, dress billowing.

Marius had crossed his arms over his chest,

“You are indifferent to the fact that you are ruining this for me.”

“Stop complaining,” Javert rumbled, “stop being a coward and approach her father to take her out on your arm like a normal suitor.”

“The last time he noticed me he moved her away.”

“You don’t know that,” Javert said, “it might have been me he saw, or any other thing. Bad neighbours.”

The girl made her appearance through the bushes and Marius instantly uncrossed his arms and clasped at the gate,

“Cosette!” he cried in a hushed voice, then he blushed with embarrassment as Eponine appeared behind her sister. Javert placed his hand over his face, tugging his hat down out of embarrassment,

“You men are useless,” Eponine said,

“I brought you a pencil and some paper, monsieur,” Cosette, “I thought you could write Papa another letter.”

“Your last letter was probably terrible,” Eponine added, “I don’t think you’re very romantic.”

Javert flushed,

“I-!”

“Don’t say that,” Cosette chided her sister, “He is clearly too shy to admit he admires Papa, let him say it in his own terms.”

Marius chuckled nervously,

“I doubt the Inspector is approaching your papa for that reason,” he said, “he is very gentlemanly and  handsome, I will admit but-” he looked at Javert and whatever he had to say trailed off beneath that fearsome glower,

“Give me the paper,” Javert grumbled and Cosette passed it into his clawing hands.

He took it and rested it up against the wall, scowling as he began to scratch out an even more awkward and poorly written message.

“Say something romantic like you did before about how he has never left your mind,” Eponine said.

“That is nice,” Cosette added, “say something poetic about his love of gardening. Or- maybe quote a poet he likes! He likes poetry.”

Javert had turned beet red. He ignored them both. He folded the letter up and held it clenched in his fist glowering at the two girls,

“If I give this to you, you won’t read it?”

Eponine rolled her eyes and Cosette nodded enthusiastically. Javert held out the letter and Eponine snatched it from him and hid it up her sleeve,

“Now don’t be a coward and come back tomorrow. I will put it on Papa’s writing desk and hide around the corner so I can see his face. If you don’t come tomorrow, I will tell you to get lost and won’t tell you anything. At least not until you do that job for me.”

Javert growled,

“I’m working on it.”

“Not right now you’re not!” She said, “you’re mooning about here. Go home, go to bed, and then do what I asked you and come back tomorrow with news. Agreed?”

Javert bared his teeth,

“Agreed,” he growled.

He turned on his heel and stalked off thoroughly ashamed of himself.

God was laughing at him. All the cherubs in Heaven were toppling from their perches. Javert was receiving lessons in love from two teenage girls. What a grim and terrible turn of events.


Javert paid out of pocket to rent a room at the Gorbeau house only to find that Marius lived next door to the Jondrette’s: this was infuriating. Still, it was useful. He was beholden to Eponine and this enraged him further but he justified his indentured servitude as only one of the many sufferings on his path back to Jean Valjean. Not redemption, that was impossible, but he could perhaps devote the rest of his life to serving that good and saintly man. Marius begrudgingly allowed Javert to spend the day in his room, peering through the little hole in the wall. Indeed, the Thernadier man spent his day writing and the woman delivering. How Javert’s fingers itched to get a grip on one of those letters! He found himself deeply intrigued by them. The Gorbeau house and the Thernadier’s rooms were a hovel, there was no reason they should spend so much time writing letters if not for profit. It was possible that they were doing some kind of copy-writing but something about this struck him as untrue. Not impossible, but incorrect in this scenario. 



Eventually, Marius returned from his studies and he crept to Javert’s side and tried to climb up on the table beside him,



“Stop that!” Javert hissed, “You will break the table!”



“Get down then,” Marius complained, “I have been intrigued all day over what you have been looking at.” 



Javert stepped down with a scowl and Marius climbed up putting his eyes to the hole,



“He is writing letters,”



“Yes.”



“How does that interest you?”



“I’m not sure yet, but I am not here on police business besides.”



Marius climbed down and they stood before each other in that hovel,



“You are not a man of money,” Javert said. Marius flushed with anger but quickly concealed it,



“No,” he said, “But I am working hard and I will become a lawyer. I work two jobs currently and provide for myself.”



“On meagre sustenance. How do you expect to care for the girl? You would not make her live like this.”



Marius scowled,



“Monsieur, forgive me but how does this concern you? You are hardly her father.” 



Javert flushed now, arms folded tightly over his broad chest, he stood more than a head taller than Marius. He used his height and breadth to his advantage,



“The well-being of Monsieur Fauchelevent’s daughters concerns me! What are your intentions with Eponine?”



“Eponine?” Marius almost cried, stifling himself at that last minute, “Why nothing! It is Cosette I love; you know this. Are you feeling well, Monsieur?”



“Then you will leave Eponine well alone and not try to play the sisters against each other.”



“No,” Marius said, “of course not! I hadn’t even thought of it! I wouldn’t think of it! It would be wicked and degrading to all involved.”



“Good.”



“But to the point,” Marius said, “I will look after Cosette when I am established. I would not bind her to me legally before then and… if she were to love another and he could do better well, then, perhaps I would give up my claim on her and let her be-”



“Don’t talk nonsense,” Javert snapped, cutting him off with a hand, “there is nothing noble in giving up in love.”



Marius looked at him curiously and blushed but said nothing, only dipping his head in a polite nod. 



“Well,” Javert said, gruff with embarrassment, “Thank you for letting me have use of your room.”



“No mind, Monsieur.”



“Here,” Javert said pushing some coins into his hand, 



“I can’t! I wouldn’t! You would insult my honour!”



“Don’t be stupid!” Javert snapped, “It’s not pity! You did me a service.”



“For free! As a kindness to an acquaintance!” Marius pushed the coins back at him, Javert snatched them and pushed them at him,



“Don’t insult me!” he snapped,



“You insult me! I do not need your money! It degrades my act of generosity!”



“You are too proud! You embarrass me treating me as a beggar!”



“You embarrass me treating me as a charity case! You have made your opinion of my living clear!”



“That doesn’t come into this!”



They both froze, they had raised their voices and now they stilled, aware of it and both embarrassed and nervous that next-door had undoubtedly heard. 



“Just take it,” Javert grumbled and when Marius refused, he threw the coins on the floor and fled before Marius could argue, leaving him open-mouthed and dismayed.  



Javert returned to meet Eponine that night nervous of her response to his poor news. She was a teenage girl; she could be unpredictable and vengeful. On God’s green earth there was nothing so deathly as a teenage girl. He was thoroughly shaken at the thought of his love coming to a grinding halt at the hands of this potentially demonic creature. Still, he was brave and he went. He met her at the gate and gave her the news: that her mother had reunited with her father and that they lived in terrible poverty. They wrote letters all day long and delivered them. They lived meagrely but maintained a roof over their heads. There seemed to be little love between them. As he spoke, she bowed her head. When he finished, she looked up at him,



“Do you think, if I had been there, I could have made a difference?”



“You would have added only one more soul to that misery.”



She nodded but did not seem comforted,



“Thank you, I know you are honest.”



He did not know what to say. She held out her hand to him in a perfunctory manner and he pressed his third letter into it. She stood looking at it,



“Do you think if I reached out to my mother, she would leave my father behind? Do not answer that, I see how you flinch. I wouldn’t. I won’t. I know the answer already. She is bound to him like an anchor. I just wish she wasn’t. It’s not so wrong to love a mother, is it?” 



When she looked up there were tears in her eyes and Javert found himself terrified and confounded once more,



“I suppose not,” he said.



She nodded and then turned and went sadly up the path and into the bushes. 



Javert stood for some time. Perhaps it was foolish to remain but he found himself unsatisfied as if he had left some task uncompleted. He was disappointed with himself. He thought: could you not have lied for once? She would not have been contented by his lies. Or perhaps she would have been? He did not understand teenage girls. He tugged briefly at his whiskers and then turned and left that sad place. 



He returned once more a few days later and interrupted Marius and Cosette sitting beside each other, with the gate in-between, talking calmly and with little of the original mad excitement. Now they spoke with a quiet insistent contentment and Javert felt a thrill of fear that the girl was falling in love with the boy as equally as he had fallen for her. He feared for Jean Valjean and his family. He said nothing but interrupted them as usual and handed the letter to Cosette,



“How is your sister?” he said and she looked sad,



“Low, but she will improve.”



“Yes.”



He left. 



 



He returned again two days later, as had become his ritual, and found himself looking across the street at Eponine standing by the gate. This relieved some tension he had not realised had gripped his chest and he approached quickly, shoving his letter through the gate,



“Here,” he said, “you look improved.” 



The girl’s hand whipped out and snatched the letter and he started as she turned her wicked smile to him and he realised that it was in fact Azelma he had looked upon, and that she had kept her face turned away from him to conceal it. 



“Give it back!” he snarled but she leapt back out of his reach, grinning and tore open his letter,



“Jean,” she began mockingly, “Who’s that? Jean, I have been thinking of you only these long months. I do not know how much more I can put onto paper for it seems my thoughts are all the same. You, you, and only you all- eurgh!” she said, wrinkling her lip and nose, “you’re making me feel sick!”



“Give it back,” he growled lowly, arm stretched through the gate,



“No!” she said and she blew a raspberry at him, “You ugly old man! I should scream and let everyone know you’re creeping about our house!”



He flushed and then paled dreadfully white. He drew his hand back through the gate and stared at her with black fearsome eyes,



“Give it back.”



She blew a raspberry again,



“You’re ugly,” she said, “and old and ugly. You should leave us alone. Papa doesn’t want anything to do with you.”



“He’s said that?” Javert whispered,



“Papa is too handsome and young for you. You look stupid and your hat is old and out of fashion.”



Javert thinned his lips,



“Has he said he does not wish to see me?”



“Why would he? You would make his eyes hurt. Papa,” she said, “Is in love with Miss Fontaine. She is young and pretty and she is very nice.”



“I don’t believe you,” he said.



“I don’t care,” she said, “you’re too stupid to understand me anyway. This is what I think of you,” she said, holding up his letter. Very slowly she took it by the corner and began to tear it. Javert swallowed, his fists trembled at his side.



Eponine launched herself out of the bushes grabbing at her sister. Azelma squealed as her sister caught a handful of her hair and dragged her to the ground. The two creatures were squalling, brawling in the dirt, scratching and pulling each other’s hair, eyes wet with tears of pain. Cosette burst through the bushes crying out in a faux-whisper,



“Quiet! Be quiet! Stop! Papa will here you!”



“Give me it!” Eponine snarled grabbing half of the letter,



“No!” Azelma screeched, “Get off of me! I will tell Papa you pulled my hair out! You cow! I hate you!” 



“Give it to me! You brat!”



The two girls grasped at the letter with clawed hands and, inevitably, tore in two with their fury. They stared at each end of it. Eponine looked up at Javert shame-faced,



“I’m sorry,” she said. 



Azelma pushed her off and stood up, stomping her feet,



“You ruined it! You’re trying to ruin it! Papa is going to marry Miss Fontaine!”



“He’s not, stupid!” Eponine said, standing and dusting off her dress, “You’re so stupid! Papa doesn’t care about her! Nobody likes her but you! She’s empty-headed and shallow like you!”



“Azelma,” Cosette said gently, “She’s far too young for Papa, and besides, he really doesn’t notice her.”



Azelma looked between them, eyes red with furious tears before she threw her head back and screamed,



“Papa!” and she tore up the path back towards the house.



Javert had blanched white as a corpse.



Eponine and Cosette gazed at him nervous and pitying. Eponine looked down at the piece of letter in her hand shamefully,



“I really didn’t mean to rip it.”



“You could write it again,” Cosette said, tugging at a piece of lace on her dress, “I could get some paper for you?”



“Nevermind it,” Javert said, not looking at them, “It was a foolish enterprise anyway.”



“It’s not!” Cosette cried, grabbing at the bars of the gate, “Oh, please don’t give up!”



“I didn’t tell you last week about how Papa responded to your letter,” Eponine said,



Javert looked up,



“He blanched at first,” she said, “But then he paced about the room. Then he read it again and sat down and put his hand over his heart.”



Javert scrubbed a big hand over his eyes,



“Did he look unhappy?”



“No.”



He looked at her,



“Then how did he look?”



“Struck. Like he didn’t know how to feel.”



Javert sighed, shoulders heaving.



“Don’t listen to Azelma,” Cosette insisted, “I mean it. She is only little and she wants a mother so badly. We have all been like that at some time, trying to insist Papa marry, but he has never loved anyone or ever wanted to marry anyone.”



“Never?” Javert said quietly,



“No, never.” 



Eponine sighed,



“You must realise how strange this is?” she said,



Javert nodded,



“We’d never have thought a man might love Papa before but Papa has never looked at a woman and you knew him before and he looked happy then, but he’s not happy now.”



“He’s never been happy,” Cosette said sadly, “he thinks we have forgotten everything in M-Sur-M but of course we haven’t. He was happy then. I only remember little things but I remember him being happy.”



A little hope lit its flame in Javert’s heart,



“And you think perhaps I could make him happy again?”



Eponine shrugged. Cosette smiled,



“I hope so. It is not that he has been a miserable or an unpleasant Papa, just that the older we get the more obvious it becomes he is grieving.”



Javert nodded.



A voice boomed down the path,



“Eponine! Cosette!”



The two girls jumped, then pushed at Javert through the bars,



“Hurry! Hide!”



Javert instead found himself frozen, eyes wide. As the bushes began to rustle somewhere out of view, he regained his senses and he ducked himself behind the wall. 



The girls turned to their father as he stepped out of the bushes, Azelma clinging to his hand,



“What is this I hear of you fighting?”



The girls glanced at each other,



“Azelma was being mean,” Eponine said, “so I taught her her manners.”



“Liar!” Azelma said, sticking her tongue out at her sister,



“You’re a liar!” Eponine responded, “You called me a cow!”



“Calm,” Monsieur Fauchelevent said, “enough raised voices. You will upset the street. Cosette,” he said firmly, turning to her,” What happened here?” 



Cosette looked nervously between her sister’s,



“Well,” she said, “Azelma was being mean and she did call Eponine a cow.”



“Liar!” Azelma shouted again and Fauchelevent placed a gentle hand over her mouth,



“Continue.”



“Well, then Eponine pulled her hair and they fell on the floor and started fighting. I said to stop but they wouldn’t.”



“I see,” he said very seriously and then, just as seriously, he held up half the letter, “And where did you get this?”



Eponine and Cosette both paled. 



“It seems to me,” Papa said, “You have both left something out of your story.”



Eponine quickly put her hands behind her back, hiding her half of the letter from view but he only looked at her seriously and held out a hand for it. She bowed her head, trudged to him and handed it over. He put the two pieces together, skimmed them and then looked down at the bottom where Javert’s crab-scrawl name was written.



“Is he still here?” he said. 



Azelma grabbed at him, wrapping her arms around him and clinging on, tears in her eyes, she cried,



“Papa, don’t! Papa, don’t speak to him! I hate him! He’s ugly and I hate him! He’s mean!”



He looked down at her seriously, rubbing her back,



“Did he say something?”



“No,” she sobbed, 



“Then why do you hate him?”



She could not answer and she only stared at him, nose dribbling and lip quivering. He sighed,



“You should have not called your sister a cow, nor tore the letter.”



She buried her face in his stomach, sobbing loudly and he sighed again heavily and pried her from him,



“Cosette, take her inside. I assume he is still here?”



The girls looked at each other sheepishly and did not answer him,



“Eponine, go inside also,” he said.



Azelma wrestled with her sisters but they took her by an arm each and escorted her, wailing, back up the path. 



Valjean and Javert stood alone. He standing in the moonlight by the gate, white hair gleaming, and Javert, back pressed against the wall, wide and white-eyed with fear, deep in the shadows.



“Javert,” Valjean said sternly. 



Javert squeezed his eyes closed and then obeyed, stepping out from behind the wall and to the gate. He bowed his head.



Valjean held up the letter but said nothing. Javert pouted. They stood in silence. Eventually, Javert forced his gaze up, looking at Valjean like a scolded dog. Valjean was stern and fearsome and noble and, lit from behind by the white light of the moon, looked every inch the angel guarding the gate of Eden. Javert interlinked his hand behind his back.



“What do you mean by this?” Valjean said, “meeting with my daughters in the dead of night? Bringing them into your scheme? It is not like you to creep around.”



“I- I’m sorry,” Javert said. 



Valjean folded his arms over his chest. After a moment his stance softened and he approached Javert gently, as if approaching a stray dog,



“What is this?” he whispered,



“You read my letters?” 



Valjean nodded,



“Then it is what it seems,” Javert said. Valjean sighed,



“Did you mean it?”



“Every word.”



Valjean wrapped a hand gently around the black bar of the fence and Javert raised his hand and grasped at the bar beside it. They two could have been on either side of a prison gate: Javert the prisoner and Valjean the warden. Javert looked at him pitifully. Valjean looked at him pitying. 



“Javert,” he murmured,



“Please,” Javert whispered, “I am not deserving of your mercy. I have not pursued your love, your forgiveness, but only the right to earn them. That’s all I ask: to earn your forgiveness.”



“You have it,” Valjean said,



“Don’t-”



“You have always had it. For all these years. Yes, I have been hurt by your actions, I have lived in fear of you at times but only as a man might live in fear of his own creation.”



Javert shook his head,



“Do not take on your shoulders the blame for my wicked deeds. I am the guilty one. I am the wicked one. I wronged you, Valjean, and wronged others in the name of vengeance against you. I treated you, who I loved, with hatred. I was- I am a monster.”



“No,” Valjean said, “it is I who has shirked the responsibility of my wickedness onto your shoulders. I am the one to blame, it is my sin you have enacted. I took a good and noble man and made him wicked through my cruelty, my lies.” 



“No, no,” Javert said, shaking his head, “You showed me love and kindness and I turned it to cruelty and hatred.”



“No,” Valjean said, “You showed me a love and tenderness I had never experienced and I soured it with lies and deception.”



“No,” Javert said and Valjean cut him off with an almost disbelieving laugh before he leant through the gate and very gently pressed a kiss to his lips. 



Javert blinked.



He said,



“I don’t- I don’t deserve-”



Valjean looked at him gently, a soft, anxious smile turning up his lips,



“You frightened me,” he whispered, “I could not understand how your letters came to be in my home. I must confess I thought to flee again. My daughters have given their approval, well, two of three. I cannot forget the things you have done, it is true, but I have forgiven you for them and would see you be the man I knew before.”



“I would be that man and better,” Javert whispered, clinging now to the bars with both hands, 



“You would be willing…” Valjean began, drifting away, biting his lip and then beginning again, “You would be willing to start again? To begin anew? From the beginning?”



“What do you mean?” Javert murmured, fearsome brows drawing down into a bemused frown,



“To try courting. Not to be lovers, I need more time to know you again. But we could try courting? Perhaps we have changed as people, perhaps we would not suit each other now, perhaps-”



“I would!” Javert cried, “I would! I would do that. I would do anything to have you again.”



Valjean flushed and dipped his head. 



“Good,” he whispered, “Maybe… maybe you could come and see me tomorrow? In daylight. Just to visit. To have tea and talk?”



“I would like that,” Javert answered, breathless.



Valjean dipped his head again with a coy, red-faced smile. 



“I should return inside,” he said, “to ensure the girls are not fighting.”



“They were ripping each other apart.”



“Yes,” Valjean said, chuckling, “teenage girls.”



They looked at each other smiling shyly,



“Can I keep the letter?”



“It is for you, although, I am embarrassed now.”



“Don’t be… I should go into the house.”



They lingered still by the gate,



“It’s late,” Valjean said.



“Yes,” Javert answered, “You should go inside the house.”



They darted their eyes at each other, blushing,



“I should go inside.”



“Yes.” 



Valjean shivered, 



“It’s cold.”



He moved a little from the gate, prying his hand from it. Javert’s darted out and took it and for a moment Valjean trembled,



“I’m sorry,” Javert whispered, “I only wanted to kiss it.”



Valjean nodded and Javert took his hand through the bars and kissed the knuckles gently.



“Thank you,” he whispered.



Valjean flushed, bright-eyed,



“I’m going inside,” he whispered, and he drew back, eyes on Javert’s. 



Javert took off his hat and held it against his chest. They smiled at each other. Valjean stepped back a little further into the bushes,



“Good night,” he said,



“Good night, Monsieur,” Javert said.



They smiled again at each other and Valjean finally drew his gaze away and disappeared into the bushes and up the path. 



Javert trembled. He bit his lip. He shook in a full-body convulsion. He did not leave the gate for an hour, standing there in the cold. Then, finally, he forced himself away, almost running home on fleet feet. The madness of the moon was in him and he found he could not comprehend what he felt. He was in a daze. He sat at the window all night, staring out over the street, hat in his hands, bending the brim all round. When the daylight began to filter pale over the buildings he realised what a fool he had been and he set about dressing himself. Beneath his bed there was an old suitcase, untouched for years, and he opened it now and stared down at the set of clothes within, a nervous flush on his cheeks. 



He would see Valjean. Jean Valjean in daylight. Jean Valjean who he might court. What a madness, what a delight. He trembled in anticipation, he trembled with fear. It never occurred to him he might have another gauntlet to cross: that he would have to earn and maintain the approval of the three daughters, those terrors that would hold the scissors to the thread of his fate. 


Javert was trembling with nervous excitement when he arrived at the gate of Rue Plumet fifty-five for the first time under the light of day. He shuffled from foot to foot before ringing the little bell that rested outside the gate.

“Coming!” Valjean called from somewhere beyond the bushes. Javert thoroughly quivered with nerves. He was undoubtedly the littlest and most anxious dog in that moment. When Valjean appeared through the bushes, Javert bounced on the balls of his feet and took his hat from his head dipping into a little bow that knocked his head with a bang against the bars. 

Valjean winced a little but avoided mentioning it to save his guest’s pride. He unlocked the gate and beckoned Javert in. Javert looked very fine in his deep blue suit with his black velvet hat and his corset waistcoat; Valjean said as much and Javert flushed with happiness,

“It’s old,” he said,

“It fits you very well,” Valjean replied. They smiled at each other shyly. 

Javert was glad to have taken his hat off when they had to push their way through the bushes for the grabbing limbs would have wrenched it from his head. They talked about little nothings as they walked to the door: Was the journey easy? Wasn’t the weather nice. Did you sleep well? They stopped at the door and smiled at each other.

“You look very nice,” Javert said quickly, realising he had not returned the compliment. Valjean blushed,

“It’s just my normal attire,” he said, patting down his brown waistcoat. Indeed, his clothes were very plain and worn but there was something about Jean Valjean that made anything he wore look good. 

“Oh,” Valjean said, “My daughters are playing down at the bottom of the garden so they will not bother us. I thought we could just sit together in the kitchen and talk?”

“That sounds very nice,” Javert answered. They opened the door and were immediately greeted by the three girls. They took turns curtseying, except for Azelma who curtsied but stuck out her tongue. 

“Welcome to our home, Inspector Javert,” Eponine said,

“Can we take your coat and get you a drink, Inspector Javert?” Cosette asked.

Javert looked at Valjean, Valjean looked back at him with an identical look of red-faced nervousness. 

“Uh,” Valjean managed before Azelma added,

“And I made cakes and I didn’t spit in them.”

“That’s… very nice,” Valjean said. Cosette approached and held out her hand to her Papa and Eponine held out her hand for Javert, 

“Come into the garden,” Cosette said, “and we’ll serve afternoon tea.”

Valjean shrugged helplessly and let his daughter take his hand, Javert thinned his lips nervously, nostrils flaring, but allowed the girl to take his big hand and lead him out to the garden.

The girls ‘playing’ had been setting up a tea party for their father and his guest. They took Javert’s coat, hat and cane and seated the two of them at the little garden table. The cups were on the tablecloth, fine china covered in weaving vines and flowers. Cosette and Eponine stood beside the table and took their orders. Valjean was as nervous as Javert and that comforted him somewhat. He did not feel so bad allowing Valjean to give their ‘order’ for tea and cakes (there were of course only one type of each on the menu but the girls seemed to enjoy the pretence.) When they ran off inside together, Valjean turned to Javert quickly and said,

“I can only apologise, I had no idea. This is not a trap-”

“It’s alright,” Javert said gruffly, “they are your daughter’s, they have been a part of my courting you so far; I can’t refuse a relationship with them.”

Valjean flushed with happiness, eyes twinkling. He reached out and took Javert’s hand for an instant to squeeze it and then he sat back shyly.

The sunshine was beautiful, well, Valjean was beautiful in the sunshine. He was beautiful in the moonlight. In fact, he was beautiful in everything. There was an angelic glow that bloomed from within him, a gentleness that emanated in waves from his tender look. His jaw and beard were the epitome of masculine handsomeness, his brow wise, his nose proud, his lips and eyes soft with an idyllic femininity that somehow were not womanish. Javert thought to express this to him and said,

“You are very handsome,” and then he blushed heavily. The pinking of Valjean’s cheeks made him only more attractive and, when he dipped his head and looked up from beneath his eyelashes, he was irresistible. Javert wished that he could kiss him. He restrained himself out of respect. Valjean said quietly,

“You are as handsome as you have always been.”

That would have been an insult from anyone else but from Valjean it was sincere. Javert turned deep red and he brushed at his fringe uselessly. The girls returned, one with a tray that held a hot teapot, a bowl of sugar, and a little jug of milk; and the other with little plates with scones, and bowls of jam and thick cream. They placed them down on the tabletop and Cosette lifted the tea pot,

“Shall I serve,”

“Oh, it’s heavy,” Valjean said, “and hot, let me,”

“No, Papa,” Cosette said, “One day I will be a lady and a hostess. How would you like your tea, Monsieur le Inspector?”

Javert grunted,

“Milk, no sugar.”

“Do you usually have sugar, Monsieur?” Cosette said, “or are you being shy again?”

Javert blushed, 

“Fine,” he said, “one sugar.”

Cosette poured out his tea for him and Eponine added the sugar and the milk stirring it while Cosette poured the tea into her father’s cup and placed it back down on the silver tray. Eponine said,

“Scones, Gentlemen?”

“Yes, thank you,” Valjean smiled indulgently,

“Yes, thank you,” Javert grunted, staring down into his tea. Eponine placed the pre-sliced scones on to their plates and then lifted the jam pot,

“Jam?”

“Yes,” they said obediently. She served them jam.

“Cream?” She said,

“Yes, thank you,” they answered. She served them a thick dolloping of cream.

The two girls stepped back, hands locked in front of them, and bowed.

“Enjoy your tea, Monsieur’s,” they said in unison and then they ran giggling back into the house.

Javert looked to Valjean helplessly and Valjean giggled a little,

“Azelma made the scones with the housekeeper this morning. I thought nothing of it,”

“And she has not spat in them?”

Valjean chuckled,

“I certainly hope not.”

“That’s not a promise,” Javert grumbled as he brought half of the scone to his mouth and took a bite, getting cream on the tip of his nose. Valjean chuckled again, and motioned to his own nose. Javert swiped at his nose to get the cream and Valjean blushed and chuckled again.

They ate their scones together, and talked about much of nothing, avoiding sensitive topics. It seemed as though they were building a barrier between them by refusing to tend to those old wounds and yet to open them too soon could only worsen them. Besides, they could hardly say they had privacy, for three little faces peered at them from the kitchen window. Still, whatever risks there might be in not addressing their past, they both glowed with the pleasure of each other’s company. A harsh winter had settled over both their hearts during their time apart and now the gentle warmth of the sun began to take the chill from those wounded organs. Eventually, they grew a little braver and discussed things of some importance: the girl’s schooling, how far away Javert lived, Valjean’s gardening; all the things that made up the patterns of their day. The tea cups were emptied once and then refilled by Valjean who blushed with happiness to serve, and Javert who made his best attempt at spooning the sugar and pouring the milk. 

When the last of the crumbs were polished off and the second cups almost drained Eponine and Cosette reappeared, dipping and then taking the plates and clattering them onto the tray eagerly before running them back into the kitchen.

“Well,” Valjean said, “that wasn’t so bad.”

And then the girls returned carrying chairs and thunked them around the table. Even Azelma came, struggling with her chair and scowling. Eponine ran back inside and returned with a platter with three more cups, another teapot of hot tea, and a little jug of milk and she roughly shoved aside the other items on the table to place them down. Cosette immediately began serving them all tea,

“What lovely weather we’ve been having,” she said, “don’t you think, Monsieur Javert?”

 Javert stared at her as if she had taken a big bite straight out of the china cup. He looked at Valjean who looked back at him with mute desperation. He returned his gaze to the girl and said,

“It is heading towards Summer.”

“It is!” she said brightly, “and isn’t that wonderful! The perfect time to sit and enjoy the garden! Which Papa never does! He only ever seems to work in it!”

“Well, there is a lot to get done,” Valjean chuckled,

“I do a lot of gardening,” Azelma said, “because I am very helpful. I pick all the strawberries-”

“- and eat them!” Eponine interrupted. Azelma wrinkled her nose at her and continued,

“And I harvest the peas and I carry the onion basket for Papa and hand them up to him when he ties them to hang in the kitchen.”

“Well,” Eponine said, “I cut the flowers and arrange them.”

“But that’s useless,” Azelma said, “and not important at all.”

“It’s important to you when your friends come for tea and they all compliment how beautiful they are and what a feminine touch there is in the household!”

“I embroidered this tablecloth,” Cosette smiled, nodding encouragingly at Javert. He nodded back.

They all sat in silence looking at him.

“I don’t do anything,” he grunted.

Azelma and Eponine rolled their eyes and Cosette hid a wince,

“Well, there must be something you do for fun?” she said,

“Not around the house,” he replied, “I cut my own hair and fix my clothes but that is out of necessity. I suppose I like to go for walks.”

“Oh, walks!” Cosette said, delighted, “Papa loves going for long walks, don’t you Papa!”

“I do,” Valjean chuckled.

She turned back to Javert, 

“Did you know that, Monsieur?”

“I did,” Javert said.

“Do you like to read, Inspector?” Eponine said, “I like to read, but mostly academic texts. I want to be a politician.”

“I hate reading. You would make a good politician, you’re ruthless and hard-nosed.”

“Thank you.”

“What a shame you hate reading,” Cosette said,

“Papa loves reading,” Azelma added, “so you’re not well suited to each other.”

“Oh, that’s not the case,” Valjean said gently, smiling at Javert, “Javert finds it quite fine when I read to him.”

The girls looked between them and then Azelma stomped her foot, got up and went into the kitchen. Eponine rolled her eyes and Cosette sipped her tea,

“It must have been time for her lessons,” she mumbled.

“She doesn’t like me,” Javert said, “she wouldn’t be the first.”

The girls looked at each other but said nothing.

“Well,” Cosette said, grasping for something to restart the conversation, 

“How did you become a police officer?” Eponine asked,

“I had no choice. I was to be a criminal of a police officer. You know how it is.”

She shrugged, “I suppose so.”

Valjean coughed, 

“Perhaps we should pack our things up and head inside before it gets cold?”

“Summers coming,” Eponine said, “it’ll be warmer in the evenings. Inspector, why did you break that little boy’s arm of whatever you did?”

Javert’s jaw clenched, the muscles of his face flexing. Cosette nudged her sister,

“Don’t ask that,” she whispered,

“Because I was being wicked,” Javert said, “he did nothing to deserve it. It was a choice on my part: I chose to do a wicked and evil deed.”

Eponine pulled a face but said nothing,

“Why would you choose to be wicked?” Cosette said, “Didn’t it make you sad?”

“Perhaps we should change the subject-” Valjean tried again,

“Yes, it made me very sad but the sadder I became the angrier I was and the more wicked I wanted to be. I never understood others wicked deeds and, in the past, I used that to justify my hardness and rigidity. Now I am not so sure. I did not want to be wicked and evil any longer and so I gave it up and tried to be good again.”

“That’s good I suppose,” she murmured over the rim of her cup as she drunk her quickly cooling tea.

Eponine shrugged,

“I get angry all of the time. I’ve pushed Cosette over, I’ve pinched Azelma and bruised her black and blue. Once, Azelma pushed me down the stairs.”

“That was an accident!” Valjean gasped. Eponine rolled her eyes,

“Of course it wasn’t. I’d cut up her new dress.”

“The baby blue one? She had lost that one at a sleepover?”

Eponine rolled her eyes again and gave Javert a meaningful look, he nodded,

“We are all evil sometimes,” Eponine said, “and we’re all angry and wicked about it. So what?”

“So, we shouldn’t be,” Valjean said sternly, “we all must make a choice to weigh in on the balance of mankind, on the scales of the soul of humanity. When we do evil deeds, we tip those scales in favour of evil, we make the great sum of humanity wickeder.”

He paused, shooting Javert a look and then glancing nervously at the girls who looked very serious and dower,

“But,” he added, “when we choose to do good that is a greater thing, for the choice to be angry and to give into anger and hatred is no choice at all; it is a weakening of will, a submitting to our baser nature. When we choose good, we might light a light so bright we blot out all evil. One good deed is worth many bad ones, and by doing them we might guide ourselves back into God’s arms.”

“I don’t know if I believe a man who had truly fallen might redeem himself as you say,” Javert said gravely, “but I believe he might spend his life in pursuit of redemption and leave the question of his success in the hands of God.”

“It is the deeds, not the intention that matter,” Valjean said, “for a wicked man might do a good deed for selfish reasons, and that individual who benefited by it would still benefit. Would he ask, ‘What were your motives, sir?’ No, he would simply praise God that some man had done him a kindness.”

Javert smirked, not unkindly but said nothing.

“Do you find diatribes on ethics boring, Monsieur-le-Inspector?” Eponine asked him. He chuckled,

“No, thankfully.”

Valjean tutted but smiled as Cosette shot her sister a foul look. Javert chuckled a little,

“You know,” Valjean said, “you must take an interest in ethics if you seek to become a politician, Eponine.”

“I have never heard of an ethical politician,” Javert answered, “it would indeed be a new invention.”

 

The girls thankfully gave them the privacy of saying goodbye. 

They stood together just beyond the bushes, not quite in sight of the gate and turned to each other, smiling,

“Well,” Valjean said, “that is not exactly as I planned it.”

Javert chuckled,

“I hope I have not completely ruined my fearsome reputation by having afternoon tea with a group of teen girls.”

Valjean dipped his eyes and smiled,

“Well, I prefer you like this… tame,” he glanced up shyly and Javert thoroughly burned up beneath his gaze. He reached out and they held hands,

“Might I kiss you goodbye?” Javert rasped, voice low and rough with excitement and nerves. Valjean shrugged,

“Perhaps on the cheek?”

Javert did not argue for more. He leant down slowly and very gently, and longingly he pressed a slow, firm kiss where Valjean’s new beard met his cheek. Valjean shivered. Javert drew back, smiling, chest heaving,

“Thank you,” he rumbled. 

They blushed and smiled at each other.

“Would you come back for tea again?” Valjean said,

“I would like that very much,” Javert said. His thumb traced over Valjean’s knuckles. Valjean’s fingers squeezed his. 

“Maybe when the girls are at school,” he chuckled, embarrassed.

Javert purred a chuckle in reply,

“Yes.”

“We might speak more privately.”

“I would like to talk more,” Javert said, “more deeply. And look at you more honestly. Not in a way only suited for prying teenage eyes.”

Valjean blushed and ducked his eyes again, jostling a little bit of dirt with his shoe,

“Well, I need a little more time for that…”

“I know,” Javert said seriously, squeezing his hands, “I can wait as long as you need, or have it never again if you decide it. I could subsist on sight of you alone. My eyes could eat my fill.”

Valjean looked up at him and then very gently pushed himself up on his toes, unlinking their hands so he could brace them on Javert’s chest, and pressed a light kiss to his cheek. Javert’s tiger grin split his face and made his dark eyes twinkle.

“I hope you travel home safely,” Valjean said, blushing again,

“And you,” Javert said and Valjean laughed at him as they separated and Javert made his way out of the gate waiting while Valjean locked it behind him. They looked at each other through the gate and Javert said,

“I forgot my hat.”

“Oh,” Valjean said, “Oh! And your coat and cane! One moment!” Before Javert could answer him, he turned and jogged back up the path and out of sight. Javert linked his fingers behind his back. He tapped his feet on the cobblestones. He rocked back and forth. Valjean reappeared carrying his coat over one arm, hat and cane, and passed them through the gate.

“I’m sorry,” he said, “I really wasn’t trying to rush you away.”

“I know,” Javert said, “My head was in the clouds was all.”

They smiled at each other again and Javert pulled on his coat, put his hat on, tipped it politely and then stepped back a few steps,

“Good night.”

“Good night.”

They smiled at each other. Javert tipped his hat again and then turned and walked quickly away, red-faced and light-footed. 

This life went on in a dreamy haze. These perfect afternoons in the garden; talking over tea as any chill left the air and the sun struck yellow over all of the world, dancing on the flowers that swayed in the gentle breeze. Sometimes they brought a little variety into their lives by walking arm and arm around the garden or sitting in the little shaded seat by the gardener’s hut. There, concealed by the high walls, and the creepers, and the shadow of the apple tree, they sat side by side, holding hands and trading kisses. It was glorious. It had been a long time since either of them had kissed anyone and they relished every second of relearning, perfecting their technique with each other. They did no more than this: pressing lips to lips and stroking hands through hair. This was bliss. 

On occasion, Javert attended tea on the weekend and then he could not avoid the girls. Still, he had conceded that he must in some ways court the girl’s affection for if anything stood between him and his ambition it was them. If he did not have their approval, he had nothing; so, he made the best of his poor attempts at sociability and took the time to look over their stitching and compliment their baking, and feign interest in the plot of a book, and hold hands and say prayers. None of this was natural to him but they were very patient with his unnaturalness and his awkward attempts at good manners. They seemed to think him somewhat pitiable and although that galled him it worked in his favour. 

 He arrived one weekend morning and rang the bell to be welcomed in by Cosette who ran up the garden holding her petticoats, hat tied upon her head with a scarf. 

“Hello, Monsieur Javert,” she said breathlessly, “Papa is unwell today.”

He frowned,

“He is? Well, let me see him.”

She curtsied and opened the gate for him.

 

When he entered the house, he found the other two girls sitting in full day-out regalia on the sofa, elbows on their knees, frowns on their faces,

“Oh!” Azelma said, “what do you want?”

“Where is your father?”

“Upstairs in his room,” Eponine said, “we were supposed to go out but-”

He didn’t listen. He marched upstairs and found his way to Valjean’s room with the help of Cosette who ran after him pointing the way. He opened the door, scowling. Valjean lay in bed, a cool towel over his brow, face pale. He glanced over with bleary eyes,

“Oh,” he said, “hello. I’m sorry, I’ll get up-”

“Don’t,” Javert growled, stepping forward and placing a hand on his shoulder to keep him in bed. He pressed the back of his hand to Valjean’s cheek,

“You’re hot.”

“The housekeeper will be here soon,” Valjean smiled, “she will look after me. It’s just a little temperature, it will pass. I think I spent too long in the garden in the evening and caught a chill.”

“Hmm.”

Valjean sighed,

“The girl’s must be so disappointed. I promised to take them out today.”

“They’ll get over it.”

Valjean chuckled,

“I suppose so, still, I don’t like to disappoint them.”

“They can look after you for a change,” Javert groused.

“You look so serious,”

“I don’t like seeing you sick.”

Valjean chuckled again,

“I’ll be fine.”

Javert harrumphed. He said,

“Have you eaten yet? Had anything to drink?”

“I had some tea.”

“When?”

“Around ten?”

Javert harrumphed again, lip curling,

“It’s twelve! They’ve been letting you starve,” he growled, “Stay here.”

He stomped back downstairs, Cosette trailing after him.

“You, girls!” he barked as he entered the living-room, “You’ve left your father up there hungry and thirsty!” 

They stood to attention,

“One of you put the kettle on, one of you take him a jug of water and a cup, and one of you scramble some eggs.”

They stared at him,

 “Get to it!” he barked and they scurried into the kitchen clattering about.

He paced back and forth, hands linked behind his back. Azelma clattered up the stairs, half spilling the jug of water, and after a few moments Eponine followed carefully after her carrying a tray with a glass, a cup, a bowl of sugar and a little jug of milk. Javert continued to pace. Then, when the kettle whined, he went in and took it off the heat, pouring it into the teapot. Eponine appeared and he handed it to her to take up the stairs. Cosette was pushing some eggs around in a pan and he supervised her with the intensity of a vulture watching over a corpse. 

“They’re done,” he said, and she served them onto a plate with a fork and ran upstairs.

After a few moments there was the ringing of a bell. Javert went to answer it. There was an old woman at the gate,

“What do you want?” he said.

She frowned,

“Who are you?” she said back, “I’m the housekeeper!”

He grunted and let her in,

“I’m Javert. A friend.”

She harrumphed at him and went up the path. Javert followed her. He let her in and the girls were still upstairs. 

“Where is Monsieur Fauchelevent?”

“Upstairs, he is unwell. He seems to have a fever. Are you experienced dealing with the sick?”

“Yes, very experienced.” she said snootily, “I will go up and see him.”

Javert stood at the bottom of the stairs clenching his fists. 

After a little while the housekeeper came down.

“And what can I do for you, Monsieur?” she said, “It must be obvious he is not up for company.”

Javert said, “You can tell me what I can do?”

She looked at him,

“Well,” she said, “I don’t know. I won’t need help around the house,” she paused and looked upstairs, “I suppose you could keep the girls out from under my feet.”

He blanched,

“I wouldn’t know how to play with the children.”

She scoffed,

“I said I don’t want you under my feet. Monsieur Fauchelevent usually takes them out for the day and walks them about Paris.”

“A walk,” he said seriously, “yes, I could take them for a walk.” 

He nodded his head. He waited. 

“Well?” the housekeeper said,

“Well.” Javert said, “Yes, well.”

“Girls!” he called. There was the thumping of feet and the three girls appeared at the top of the stairs,

“Yes, Monsieur?” Cosette said,

“You were going out today?” he said, “well, are you ready to go?”

They blinked at him,

“We’re all dressed, aren’t we?” Eponine said,

“Well then, come downstairs then, let’s go.”

They continued to stare at him,

“Well come on!” he said, “do you want to go out or not?”

They clattered downstairs, almost knocking the housekeeper down, and he swept around and headed straight for the door assuming they would follow.   

They did and he led them out somewhat like a large black swan leading a gaggle of little ducklings. They didn’t know quite what to make of him and he didn’t know quite what to make of them, and nor did he know where to take them and so he took them to the park and walked them about there until they plucked up the courage to complain that they were bored. Then he took them to Notre Dame. They stared at this for a while before they said they were bored of that too. He huffed and puffed at this,

“Well, what do you want?” he said,

“I want to go shopping,” Azelma said,

“I want to go to a museum,” Eponine said,

“I don’t mind,” Cosette said, “I’m happy to do whatever you enjoy.”

“Well, we can’t do all of those,” Javert said, (he did not want to) “So pick one of them.”

This started an immediate fight and he scowled, and looked about at anything but them as they hissed and pulled at each other’s dresses and spat insults at each other. Finally, he said,

“Do you like murders?”

They all stopped and looked at him wide-eyed,

“Gruesome murders?” Eponine said,

“Bloody murders?” Azelma said,

“Papa said murders would upset us,” Cosette said,

“I know a lot of good places for murders,” Javert said. 

The girls were very excited by this. Oh yes, this was terrifying, this was horrific, this was ecstatic. They followed after him silent and rapt. He took them down to the edge of the Seine near the sewers and pointed out a dark spot,

“Here, a prostitute was wrapped with a rope around the neck and garrotted.”

They gasped and clutched at each other trembling, each struggling to get closer to the spot without seeming as if it were their goal,

“What does garrotted mean?” Azelma whispered,

“Strangled.”

They gasped again.

He took them to a dark alley that led off of an inconsequential by-street.

“Here,” he said, “a butcher stabbed his son-in-law, cut off his head, and butchered his body. He disposed of the pieces by feeding them to pigs on a pig farm.”

Cosette made the sign of the cross over her chest and Eponine said,

“How did he get the pieces to the pig farm?”

“He paid his meat supplier to sell them back to the farmer her purchased the pigs from.”

The girls squealed and shrieked, clutching at each other,

“I bet someone ate him!” Azelma cried,

“They made man-sausages!” Eponine said. Cosette covered her eyes and groaned,

“I feel sick.”

“Are you done then?” Javert said, “You don’t want anymore.”

“She didn’t say that!” Eponine answered.

Javert took them to a park where he led them beneath a bower of trees,

“Here a young man and his lover were murdered by a jealous ex of the mistress. Yes, this man had a lover and a mistress. The murderer mistook the young man’s lover for his ex-mistress and flew into a rage killing them both.”

“How?” Azelma whispered,

“Bludgeoned them,” Javert said, “it took days to pick up all of the bone shards. No doubt there are still some there today.”

This was a revelation. The three girls eagerly spent the next hour crawling around the floor digging through the woodchip and roots looking for shards of skull. 

“Is this one?” Azelma called, holding up a little white rock. Eponine and Cosette ran over to look at it,

“No,” they said sadly, “It’s just a little rock.”

This was a disappointing exercise. 

 

“I suppose we should go shopping,” Eponine said, “seeing as we’ve had no luck finding anything.”

They went shopping.

 

They made their way through the busy streets, Azelma on Javert’s arm (although she kept intentionally stepping on the back of his boots) and Cosette and Eponine arm-in-arm. 

“Where do young ladies’ shop?” Javert rumbled,

“We should go to the nice hat shop,” Azelma said, “I saw Minky the other day at a party and she was wearing the biggest hat I have ever seen, it was tremendous! And all the girls were complimenting her on it. She said it was in the ‘English style.’”

Javert scoffed at this and she shot him a glare,

“Why are you laughing smoke-top? Your hat is so out of fashion you ought to dig it a grave.”

“There is nothing more tasteless than the English style,” Javert said as Eponine and Cosette stopped to stare into the window of a dress shop at two new satin summer dresses, 

“The English imitate the French style- poorly I might add- and they deform it horrendously with that awful illness they call their taste and try to sell it back to us. It’s pathetic. If you were to imitate any style it should be the Italian, but even then, I would only do so at a stretch for the French are at the peak of all aesthetic development, particularly in fashion. The world imitates us, Azelma, we do not need to imitate them.”

Azelma stared at him, then she looked at the dresses in the window,

“I suppose Minky is very stupid and vapid.”

“No doubt.”

“Her big hat was tacky anyway. Let’s look inside.” 

They went inside the girl’s immediately split up, each gravitating to their tastes. After a while Azelma came to Javert with a hat. He had remained by the door, a grim spectre that was no doubt putting off any other customer’s but the shop attendant was too intimidated to request he move. Azelma held up the ladies hat for him to inspect and he turned it all about in his hands and said,

“Imitation Venetian.”

“I thought that,” Azelma said very wisely and she ran off with it to return it to the mannequin head. The shop attendant grimaced but said nothing. 

Cosette called out,

“What is in fashion, Monsieur Javert?”

“Gathered pastel satin with lace trim,” he said grimly. 

The girls all nodded and immediately gathered around the section of the shop displaying the most like dresses. Eponine turned to him and said,

“And what’s timeless, Monsieur Javert?”

“Simplicity and a good silhouette,” Javert answered, “a good shape and silhouette never go out of fashion even when the silhouette itself is no longer in favour. Quality is always admirable. Focus on excellent quality materials and strong construction. A woman’s dress is only beautiful as long as the seams don’t tear.”

The shop attendant said,

“Our seams don’t tear, Monsieur.”

He quirked a brow at that and said,

“I suppose we shall see. Get receipts, girls.”

They each had they own money and each took turns trying on summer scarves and gloves and hats, getting Monsieur Javert’s approval. When they had purchased everything they wanted he loaded up their bags on his spare arm, took Azelma on the other and led them out. 

“Monsieur Javert,” Azelma said as they made their way back through the park, “If you like fashion so much, why are your clothes so old?”

“I am very poor,” he answered. She sniffed. Then she said,

“You should make some more money then, so you can be rich like Papa.”

“I suppose I should,” he said. 

 

They sat together on a bench and ate croissant. Cosette and Eponine had pinched together their last coins and purchased one for Javert. He sat uncharacteristically relaxed with his long legs stretched out in front of him, and those three little ducklings sat beside him in descending order, little legs outstretched; and when he looked left they looked left, and when he looked ahead they looked ahead, and when he ate his croissant they watched him and nibbled on theirs. What a strange quartet they made. He said,

“The light is beginning to get dim, we’d best return home.”

They rose and followed him obediently.

 

“Have you ever fought a murderer?” Azelma asked as he escorted them home,

“Lots of times,” he said.

“How did you beat him up? Did he have a big butcher’s knife?”

“No, he had a gun, which was worse.”

“I don’t like guns,” Cosette said.

“I would like to learn to shoot a gun,” Eponine said.

“Don’t learn to shoot a gun unless you are willing to be shot with a gun,” Javert said very seriously.

“Does it hurt being shot with a gun?” Azelma asked,

“Yes, very much.”

The girl’s all gasped at him,

“Do you have a big hole in you where he shot you?” Azelma asked,

“Don’t say that!” Cosette said, “you can’t ask someone if they have a big hole in them!”

“I did at one time,” Javert said, “but it was not so big. If it had been big I would have died. It was in my shoulder.”

“Can we see it?” Eponine asked,

“If you father agrees,”

Eponine groaned,

“Urgh, we will never see it then.”

They arrived back at the gate as the sky began to darken and Javert rang the little bell. The housekeeper came out and let them in, fussing the girl’s as Javert followed them into the house.

“How was it?” the housekeeper asked him as he ignored her, heading straight up the stairs,

“Fine,” he grunted.

He knocked lightly on Valjean’s door and pushed it open. Valjean was dozing. He went to pull the door closed and Valjean said,

“I’m just resting my eyes.” 

He cracked one eye open,

“My fever has broken,” he smiled. Javert entered, pushing the door quietly closed behind him,

“I’ve been worrying about you,” he murmured, 

“Hmm,” Valjean smiled, “I heard you took my girl’s out? That was very brave of you.”

“They were no problem for me.”

Valjean chuckled, 

“You must be a very strong man.”

Javert smiled wryly,

“Many have said so. They want to see my bullet scar.”

Valjean frowned,

“That’s not a very suitable thing for young women to be thinking about,” he grumbled. Javert blanched and coughed into his fist,

“Well, you know, that’s what I thought. I told them to speak with you. Anyway, I am very grateful to find you feeling and looking better.”

Valjean held up his hand and Javert took it and pressed it between his own. They smiled softly at each other,

“I will be well enough for you to kiss me goodbye soon, I hope.”

“I hope that too,” Javert purred. He sighed, 

“I should return home. It has been a long day.”

Valjean sighed also, but a soft sigh of love,

“Yes,” he said, “I have missed my daughters and they will probably want to see me. I hope they do! Unless they have had so much fun that they have not missed me at all!” he chuckled, “send them up?”

Javert nodded, squeezed Valjean’s hand once more and then left him, eyes twinkling as he softly pulled the door closed. He thumped downstairs calling out for the girls to visit their father. They rushed up, pushing to be first in the room and he found himself alone with the housekeeper.

“Thank you for your help today, Monsieur Javert,” she said. He nodded and grunted his acknowledgement as he pulled on his coat.

“You know,” she said, as he stepped out the door, “you’re not what the newspapers made you out to be.”

He paled, but did not turn around.

His head was in a mad buzz, that ghostly black swan. His coat billowed about him, his tall hat cut a black pillar in the sky, the clack of his heels on the stone cobbles scattered the pickpockets and thieves. He had been doing more thinking since meeting Jean Valjean again than he had ever done in his life. Yes, he was forming thoughts but these thoughts were vague and shapeless and still struggling to take definite form. He was perhaps on the precipice of something, or perhaps was on the road to somewhere significant. He couldn’t yet see where or what it might be that he reached for. He had not yet overcome the idea that the wronging of Jean Valjean was entirely at his hands, he had not yet come to look instead at that master he called Law critically. He was too focussed on his current objective, was still too short-sighted. He was a dog sniffing about with its nose in the soil, too concerned with finding the patch of dirt that carried the scent to look up and see the deer standing before it. This was Javert’s nature; it did not make him good, nor did it make him bad, it only made him blind. Javert was accursedly human.

 


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The next time Javert came to tea, Valjean was in the garden harvesting fruits from two long rows of strawberry plants. The girl’s had let Javert in and they gathered around him as he stood in the door to the garden watching Valjean with his back bent to them. Javert looked down at the girls and said,

“Quickly, before he notices,” and he took out of his inside pocket a little velvet bag. The girls gathered 'round it enraptured. He opened it and jostled a little piece of metal into his palm,

“Here,” he said, “the bullet they took out of my shoulder.”

The girls cooed, pushing in even closer, wrestling shoulders and elbows against each other to peer into his palm. He dropped it into Cosette’s hand and they ooh’ed and aww’ed with excitement as she held it up and turned it over,

“Was it covered in blood?” Azelma asked,

“Yes.”

“Did it hurt when they pulled it out?” Eponine asked,

“Very much.”

“How did they get it out?” Cosette asked as Eponine took it from her, squinting and bringing it to her eye to inspect it,

“They cut it out with a little knife,” he darted a look out into the garden to check that Valjean was still distracted.

The girl’s grimaced.

“Did a doctor do it?” Azelma asked as she snatched the bullet from Eponine,

“A surgeon did it.”

“What’s that?”

“A doctor who cuts people up.”

“Ooooh,” the girls said, delighted by this knowledge.

“I want to be a surgeon,” Eponine said,

“No you don’t!” Azelma said as Eponine snatched the bullet from her to inspect again, “You wanted to be a politician yesterday!”

“Well I’ll be a surgeon-politician!”

“You can’t do that!”

“That sounds like a lot of work,” Cosette said,

“Not if I do surgeoning in the morning and politicianing in the evening.”

The girls both frowned, not entirely convinced of this but too defeated by this logic to argue.

Azelma snatched the bullet again and looked up at Javert and said,

“Can I keep it?”

“No,” Javert answered. Azelma scowled at him something dirty. Eponine smirked and snatched it from her,

“Can I keep it?” she said smugly,

“No.”

“What!” she barked. Azelma scoffed.

“No,” Javert said, “none of you can have it because I don’t trust any of you to share it.”

“I should get it,” Eponine argued, “because I’m oldest! And I’m the most responsible!”

“You’re not responsible,” Javert said sternly, prying the bullet from her fingers, “if you were responsible, you would be able to share it fairly- which you can’t.”

He dropped it back into the little bag and tucked it into his pocket.

“I’m going to tell on you to Papa, then,” Eponine sneered,

“Don’t-” whispered Cosette, clutching at her arm,

“Do that,” Javert said, “and I will not bring any more gruesome items for you all to enjoy.”

The trio gasped. They shook their heads solemnly. They looked between themselves, communicating in that silent, secret way only sisters can. Finally, Eponine looked up and said,

“You are a cruel man. We concede.”

Javert nodded,

“Very wise.”

“Oh, Javert!” Valjean called, “I didn’t see you had arrived! Come! The weather is lovely!”

Javert smiled at him, nodding, and shot the girls one last warning glance before heading out into the garden, heeding his master’s call. 

Javert did not realise, in his hubris, that he had made for himself an enemy. Eponine watched him go; face scrunched in subdued rage. She knew in her heart and her mind that she was in fact the most mature and intelligent sister, and she knew, as a fact, that she must have some revenge on Javert for his slight. It was her will, as a teenage girl, that she must be utterly vicious and merciless to her enemies; even if, by the next day, those enemies should be her friends. Cosette looked at her with concern but said nothing, going instead into the garden to assist her Papa in washing the strawberries under the garden tap. Eponine and Azelma remained alone. They said nothing, only looked at each other and saw in each other’s eyes the reflection of their own wickedness.

The day went by as usual without Javert nor Papa any the wiser of the girl’s secret vitriol. In fact, Azelma was suspiciously friendly and, if anything, it was this that perturbed Javert. Cosette was perpetually nervous but could do nothing. Javert stayed even to dinner time and sat around the table together with them, saying prayers and then eating.

“That was very good,” he said as he untucked his napkin from his neck. Valjean flushed,

“Well, I did very little. The housekeeper had put aside all the ingredients yesterday before she left.”

“But you put them together and cooked them.”

“Papa is a very good cook,” Cosette added and Valjean tried to wave the compliment away,

“I agree,” Javert said.  

“Papa has even made a beef Wellington which was an English dish made after the war,” Cosette said, “it is supposed to be quite hard to get right.”

Azelma looked sly,

“I heard Javert say he thought everything English was bad and stupid,”

Javert looked startled and then corrected quickly,

“Only in their poor attempts at fashion. I didn’t comment on their food.”

“Are you a royalist or a Bonapartist?” Eponine asked, “would it offend you to eat a Wellington?”

Javert darted his eyes to her, suspiciously,

“I don’t take any interest in politics.”

“So you don’t even know who those two people are?”

“Of course I do, I just don’t care to hold an opinion.”

“Well, everyone has to have an opinion,” Eponine said,

“No, they don’t,” he said

“Yes they do.”

“People in positions of authority must do what is right by the law regardless of who is the countries figurehead. The law is immutable and does not change with the political seasons.”

“Actually,” Valjean said, wincing, “it does.”

Javert shot him a glare,

“Javert,” Valjean said, “the laws are enacted by and written by those in power. Objectively they change.”

“Then which are you?” Javert asked accusingly,

 Valjean said, with an air of magnanimity, “I don’t have an opinion.”

Javert scoffed and very quickly they both found humour in this mutual disregard for the greatest political upheavals of their time. Cosette was visibly relieved. Azelma and Eponine looked at each other but said nothing. 

After a quick after-dinner drink, it was time for Javert to go. He and Valjean had not had much time to kiss (what with the girls hanging about) and so they snuck a quick one in at the door while Javert pulled on his coat.

“I want to see you more privately,” Javert said, “I could take a long lunch tomorrow, if your door was open.”

“Always, to you,” Valjean answered, blushing sweetly. He turned and reached to take Javert’s hat from the hat stand and then paused, “Oh,” he said, “where is your hat?”

Javert frowned and looked about, 

“And my cane?” he said. 

They hunted about together and came up short. When they returned to the living-room they found the three girls standing together in the middle of the room.

“Not left, Monsieur Javert?” Azelma said sweetly.

“I can’t find my hat and cane,” he growled. The girl looked at her sister knowingly and then shrugged,

“Maybe you didn’t bring them?” she said.

“I did,” he answered.

Valjean placed his hands on his hips,

“None of you have seen where the Inspector might have placed them? When he came in?”

“I put them by the coat and hat rack,” Javert growled,

“You can’t have,” Eponine answered, “perhaps you’re getting old, Inspector, and it’s making you confused.” 

“I’m not confused,” he rumbled, “I know where I left them.”

“I can’t think of what could have happened,” Valjean said, perfectly innocently.

“I think I know,” Javert said, then he paused. Eponine had smiled at him. Had smiled at him wickedly, knowingly. There was some game afoot and she believed he had miss-stepped and that she was on the precipice of winning. His nostrils flared.

“Do you?” Valjean said,

“Yes,” Javert said, correcting his tone, “I went out into the garden. I think perhaps I took them out there.”

“Oh, yes!” Valjean said, “let’s go check before the light gets too dark. There could be unexpected showers and we do not want your hat ruined.”

Javert let Valjean lead and, as he followed, he turned back and found Eponine and Azelma scowling at him horribly. He smirked.

 

Cosette turned to her sisters and cried,

“What are you doing? Why have you taken the Inspector’s hat?”

“Oh, don’t be a goody-two-shoes, Cosette!” Eponine said, “You heard what he said earlier! He said we were all silly stupid little children.”

“No he didn’t,” Cosette argued, “he said you weren’t good at sharing and he’s right: you hate sharing!”

“So! He’s a guest! Not our dad! It’s none of his business to criticise our sharing.”

“You’re being so mean!” Cosette said, balling her fists, “you know how happy he’s made Papa these last few weeks and you want to ruin it for him!”

“Oh, come on,” Eponine said, rolling her eyes, “I just wanted to see him get angry and told off. You know Papa would forgive him.”

“What if he didn’t?” Cosette said, “what if you ruined it for Papa and Monsieur Javert went away and Papa was alone again?”

“Good!” Azelma said, stomping her foot like a bull, “Good! Good! I hate Javert! I hate him! I don’t want another Papa! I don’t need another Papa! I want him to go away forever and never ever come back! I want a new Mama and Javert is ruining it! Papa will never get married to a nice Mama if he loves Javert! It’s not fair! It’s not right!”

Her little body scrunched up with rage and her fists shook uncontrollably,

“I hate you!” she cried, “I hate you both! You’re trying to ruin it for me! I hate you both!” and she fled, running upstairs and slamming the door to her bedroom. The two girls stared at the bottom of the stairs where she had disappeared. 

Papa entered saying,

“What was that bang?”

Eponine and Cosette shot each other a glance and Eponine said quickly,

“It was just me and Azelma fighting. She went up to her room to throw a tantrum.”

Valjean shook his head,

“Eponine, really,” he said, disappointment in his every look and tone, “You are three years her senior, you really must act like it.”

Eponine hung her head,

“I know, Papa, I’m sorry.”

“It’s alright,” he said, sighing, “I suppose sisters will argue.”

He sighed again, scratching his head,

“We still could not find Monsieur Javert’s hat. I am truly baffled.”

“Indeed,” Javert said curiously.

Cosette looked nervously at her sister and then said,

“Well, perhaps Monsieur Javert could stay here tonight? Then in the morning perhaps he would have better luck finding his things?”

Valjean’s eyes widened and he shot Javert a searching, nervous look,

“Oh- y-yes,” Javert stammered, “I suppose I could sleep on the sofa.”

“No, no,” Valjean said, “we have a spare room.”

“Oh, yes, very good,” Javert answered. 

 They stared at each other. Cosette looked between them nervously. 

“I shall go to bed,” she said,

“Me too,” Eponine said. They both ran to Valjean and he kissed each of them on the crown of their heads.

When they had left Valjean and Javert stared at each other nervously, twisting their fingers in the fabric of their shirts.

“Obviously…”

“Obviously,” Javert said, “the girls are here.”

“Yes.”

“I’ll show you to the guest room,” Valjean said, blushing and ducking his head as he led Javert to the stairs.

The went upstairs together, grateful that the girls’ bedroom doors were firmly closed. They passed Valjean’s bedroom and went to the room next door. Valjean opened it and they looked inside together at the bed. They could not meet each other’s eyes,

“Do you need… anything?” Valjean asked, “A glass of water or something to sleep in?”

 “No, no,” Javert said, “just my hat.”

Valjean stifled a giggle and Javert entered the room, pausing besides the bed to smile helplessly at Valjean,

“Might I have a kiss goodnight, Monsieur?”

Valjean blushed, he looked quickly over his shoulder at the girl’s doors and then entered, pulled the guest room door closed and stepped to Javert, leaning up to kiss him on the cheek. Javert turned his face and caught him on the lips. They stayed there for a long moment and then drew away smiling softly at each other. Javert leant down and kissed him gently again. Valjean’s arms slid subtly around his waist and drew them together. Javert’s hands smoothed over Valjean’s shoulders and down his arms, squeezing his biceps. The kiss deepened. Valjean drew back, 

“We can’t,” he whispered,

“I know,” Javert murmured, kissing the side of his nose. Valjean broke their embrace. He stepped back, red-faced and pleased and put his hand on the doorknob.

“Goodnight,” he said, “I’ll- see you tomorrow morning.”

“Yes,” Javert said. 

Valjean took a moment longer and then stepped out, drawing the door quietly closed.

Javert exhaled, deflating. His heart was pounding in his chest. He felt sick with excitement. What a foolish thing to work himself up when he had to sleep! The door closing had left him alone in the dark of the room and he stripped quickly down to his undershirt and climbed under the covers, twisting the hem of the blankets in his fists, staring into the dark of the ceiling. Valjean was only one wall away. He was no doubt stripping and climbing into bed. Javert trembled. How badly he wanted to creep out of that room and into Valjean’s, even just to climb into the bed and sleep besides him, wrapped in his arms. He had never slept as well as he had when cushioned against that powerful chest. He could hardly sleep now. He was thrumming with excitement, both to be so close but also from the thrill of knowing he was finding success in earning his way back into Valjean’s heart. How he longed to be embraced by that tender organ. To be held there and cherished as he once had been; when he had felt for the first time a feeling of personal significance, as if his life had an inherent value beyond performing as a tool for the greater good. 

He lay awake for hours, dancing in waking dreams of the two of them together caught in sweet and innocent embraces: in the garden and the kitchen, and the living-room, and the park and -it went on and on. He only fell asleep when sheer exhaustion won out.

When he woke in the morning, dressed and came downstairs, he found Valjean in the kitchen frying eggs and sausages and he approached him, embraced him and kissed his cheek as he had so long ago in the little cottage on the edge of the woods. Valjean chuckled with delight, turned to look at him and then froze. Memory struck Javert and he turned and found the three girls staring at him wide-eyed, food half in their mouths. Azelma’s eyes turned red and she jumped up storming upstairs again. Javert released Valjean. Valjean sighed. Javert’s hat and cane were mysteriously on the kitchen counter. No one paid them any mind.

“What can I do?” Valjean sighed helplessly. Eponine and Cosette looked at each other and then sighed themselves, putting down their forks,

“Papa,” Cosette began but Eponine took the lead,

“Papa, Azelma is angry because she wants a Mama.” 

Valjean’s face creased with pain,

“Ah,” he said, “How long has she felt like this?”

“Always,” Eponine answered, “but more so in the past three years. You must have seen how she wanted you to get married? All the women she introduced you to?”

“Yes, I saw,” he said, rubbing the back of his neck, “but I only thought you all still thought me lonely.”

Javert turned away and made himself busy with the sausages and eggs, flushing with awkwardness.

“We all knew you were lonely, Papa,” Cosette said, “and we have all at one time wanted a new Mama, but you must understand: Eponine and I are old enough to remember our Mama’s, Azelma does not.”

Eponine shook her head in agreement,

“She cries often that she cannot remember our Mama’s face.”

Valjean covered his face with his hand,

“Why has she never come to me with this? Why have none of you?”

“It is a sister thing,” Eponine said,

“Yes,” Cosette said, “we all understood it. We’re all the same. Things were not so bad until Monsieur Javert came.”

Javert tried to close his ears, serving the fried eggs and bacon onto two plates. He went looking for butter and bread. Valjean sighed,

“What can I do?”

The girls shrugged,

“Nothing Papa,” Cosette said, “you cannot marry a woman just to make Azelma happy.”

“I-”

“Don’t, Papa,” Eponine said stubbornly, “if it were going to happen it would have happened by now. It’s clear what you like, even if we don’t understand it.”

“That’s not fair,” Cosette said, “I think Monsieur Javert is quite handsome in his own way; his black clothes are very mysterious and his nostrils are very distinct.”

Javert audibly groaned and smeared his hand over his face. Valjean chuckled. Then he said,

“I will go and speak with Azelma. Javert feel free to begin eating.”

As if Javert had an appetite!

He went upstairs. 

Javert turned and carried his plate to sit at the table opposite Eponine and beside Cosette. The girls looked at him with concern as he forced the food into his mouth stubbornly. He took a deep draught of water and said gruffly,

“Would it be better if I left? For good.”

“No!” they said quickly, and then,

“No,” Eponine said, “don’t you dare break Papa’s heart.”

“I don’t want to,” he rumbled, chewing on his egg,

“We mean it,” Cosette said,

“I want him to be happy.”

“He is happy now. He won’t be happy if you hurt him. Azelma is fourteen, she is still very young. She has had an idea in her head of what a family is for a long time but it’s not right by Papa and she needs to accept it. We can’t always get what we want.”

Javert grunted. He wiped his bread through the remaining egg yolk on the plate,

“I don’t want to harm your family,” he said.

“You won’t, Azelma is just being a brat,” Eponine said, folding her arms.

“Don’t be mean,” Cosette said, “you know it’s harder for her. You and I have memories of our mothers, she might have well never have had one.”

“She has some memories,” Eponine argued,

“Not like us. She said she cannot even remember her mother’s face.”

“I don’t remember my mother’s face,” Javert said. The girls turned to him with interest. He rose and began washing off his plate in the sink,

“My mother died when I was very young. She was not a very good mother but I have some good memories. I do not remember what she looked like, other than she had dark hair like mine.” 

“How did your Mama die?” Cosette whispered,

“Syphilis I think,” he rumbled, voice rough with some unknown emotion. He stopped washing and the plates clattered onto the drying board. He stood leaning on the kitchen counter,

“She was very sick and I was very afraid of her by the time she was dying.”

“I’m sorry,” Cosette said,

“You can’t tell Azelma our mother is still alive,” Eponine said seriously, “she would do anything to bring her back into our lives. She would not even understand what a risk she put our new family in. I think she would let our father burn down everything we have if he said he loved her and kissed her forehead. She’s naive.”

Javert nodded,

“I won’t.”

Then he said,

“Have you told Jean about Gavroche?”

There was silence. He turned to Eponine angrily,

“You should have told him!” he said, “You should not keep secrets from your Papa.”

Eponine scowled at him,

“He keeps secrets! He doesn’t need to know.”

“He would want to,” Javert growled, “how can you think he would be okay with knowing you had a brother living on the streets? That you had not shown Christian kindness by telling Jean so that he could help? That would break his heart. Think of the guilt that would burden him!”

Cosette looked between them frantically,

“You have a brother, Eponine?”

“No, I don’t,” she said, “we are only related by blood.”

“Think of your Papa!” Javert snarled,

“Gavroche is fine, he likes being homeless.”

“You would ask me to lie to your Papa too?”

Eponine paled,

“You cannot tell him,” she said,

“I must if you will not.”

“You can’t,” she said, “you would put us at risk.”

“Gavroche does not care for his parent’s he has no loyalty to them.”

“You can’t know that for sure.”

“But you must,” he said, voice low and rough with ruthlessness, “for you have gone to that cafe and seen him, and heard him, and seen the dirt and blood on his hands and feet, and the way his clothes hang on his body, and his cheekbones stick out from his face, and his eyes are all bruised by hunger. You have seen it, Eponine. You are choosing to do nothing.”

Eponine turned her face to the table,

“Tell Papa if you want,” she said, “but I will not be responsible if it all goes wrong.”

Javert puffed out an angry breath from his nose and then heaved a great breath into his chest. He slumped back against the countertop,

“That is fine,” he said, “I will take responsibility then.”

He wiped his hand over his face as if gently closing the eyes of a corpse. 

Valjean thumped downstairs and entered the kitchen looking tired and drawn,

“We have spoken,” he said, hands on his hips, “she is very upset. I do not know if I can comfort her.”

“You are a good father, Valjean,” Javert said. 

Valjean nodded and sighed,

“I do not always know if I agree. How can I be a good father if none of my daughter’s feel they can talk to me? If they all feel they must keep secrets from me?”

Cosette rose crying, “Papa!” as she ran to him and wrapped her arms around him, burying her face in his ribs, “Oh, Papa! Oh, Papa! We didn’t want to make you sad!”

He embraced her, rubbing her back. Eponine rose also and went to her father, embracing him and pressing her face against him. He wrapped his arms around both of them and squeezed them tight, kissing one and then the other the crown of their heads over and over. Javert watched them sadly, burdened by guilt at bearing those secrets.

“I’m sorry, Javert,” Valjean said,

“Don’t apologise,” Javert said.

“My breakfast is cold.”

“It doesn’t matter,” Javert replied, “I will get my belongings and leave you to your family.”

“Thank you,” he said.

Javert took his cane and hat from the kitchen top and went out into the hall to pull on his greatcoat. After a moment Valjean followed him and took his hand squeezing it. Javert looked at their joint hands, so different- on square and strong, one long and thin- and yet they complimented each other perfectly. He said,

“Jean, I must tell you something,”

“You never have to tell me anything you do not wish,”

“Please, Jean. I have been keeping secrets from you. Eponine asked me to look into the location of her mother for her and I did.”

Valjean started. Javert continued,

“The Thernadiers are living in Paris. I have been to their address. Eponine knows they are in Paris but does not wish to see them.”

“Javert,” Valjean said, voice low and rough with anger, “you should not have-”

“There is more. There is a brother: Gavroche. He is a street boy: thin, uneducated, poorly clothed. He said his parents do not care for him and he lives where he can. Eponine knows him, he does not know she is his sister.”

He finally grew brave enough to lift his eyes and he found Valjean’s face ashen, lips pressed thin and bloodless. Javert dropped his eyes once more.

“You should not have done that,” Valjean said, “you should not have put my family in danger. You should not have kept secrets from me.”

“I’m sorry.”

“There’s a boy?”

“Yes.”

“And he is homeless?”

“Yes.”

“And Eponine knows him?”

“Yes.”

“And knows he is her brother?”

“Yes.”

“And does Azelma know?”

“No, she does not.”

“You must tell me how to contact this boy.”

Javert looked up,

“No,” he said firmly.

Valjean’s face creased in anger, his eyes flared,

“You will tell me.”

“No. I will not let you contact this boy. You will put yourself and your daughters in danger.”

“You will not stop me from helping-”

“I must, for your own good.”

“He is the sibling of my daughters-”

“He is a boy who does not know you or your daughters.”

“So he is less deserving? I must just let him suffer while they live happily?”

Javert sighed,

“This is why I did not tell you. Besides, I hoped Eponine would tell you.”

“Don’t try to blame this on her, she is a child.”

Javert squeezed his hand,

“I’m not. It is my responsibility. Valjean,” he said, “Gavroche says that his parents want their daughters back. If you interfere you risk them recognising you and harming you and your children. Your status as a recidivist makes you vulnerable to blackmail or extortion. They could even have you returned to prison. What would happen to your daughters then?”

“Yes, Javert,” Valjean growled, pulling his hand from Javert’s grip, “you do not need to remind me of my poor choices.”

“I am not trying to,” he said insistently, “I am trying to tell you to trust me. Let me find a solution to the issue of Gavroche. Do not act rashly. Please, Jean, you must know I always have your best interests at heart? You must know I would do anything to make you happy?”

Valjean sighed, great shoulders sagging. He dropped his head into his hands and trembled. Javert sighed and drew him to his chest, wrapping him in his long arms and rubbing his back. Valjean shuddered against him,

“I do know that,” he murmured into Javert’s chest.

“Please give me time,”

“I will. But, please, you must know I have a duty to that little boy. I couldn’t bear- if something were to happen- the thought of him being hungry and cold-”

“I know,” Javert soothed, resting his heavy chin on that curly mane of brown hair now streaked with grey, “I know. You are a saint. You are cursed to take on the burdens of others.”

“It’s not like that. I just couldn’t live with it.. if…”

“Shh, say no more. I am your servant. I will do my work and report back to you at every step of the way. You have my solemn promise.”

“Thank you,” he said.

They stood like that for a few moments more and then Javert pressed a kiss to the crown of his head,

“I must go to work,” he whispered,

“Yes.”

“And you must comfort your daughters.”

“Yes.”

“You are a good father Jean, but you keep too many secrets. It is you they have learned it from.”

Valjean nodded against his chest but said nothing. Javert kissed him again,

“I hate to leave you but-”

“I know,” he replied, releasing him and stepping back, eyes downcast.

Javert clasped his hand and squeezed it,

“Please trust your daughters and be honest with them. I will say no more than that; it is not my place. Know I love you.”

Javert placed his hat on his head, his cane under his arm and left.

 

Hello everyone, thank you so much for all of the comments! You are all wonderful. Letting you know that I have up to chapter 20 planned but no idea when or how this fic will end. Whoops! There will be sex again at some point but every couple knows having sex is hard when you have kids :( Wish them luck

It was Javert’s duty to serve Monsieur Valjean. That man, that good man, who stood above Javert in every aspect. Like Christ himself he had died and been reborn twice over. He was a saint, he was a pariah, he was the master of Javert, the man who held dominion over his black wood heart. To please Jean Valjean, Javert would raise even the world from where it perched. In this way, to find a way to legally remove Gavroche Thernadier from his parent’s seemed comparatively a small request.  

The first step was to speak with Gavroche. 

He sought the boy out at the Cafe both Gavroche and Eponine attended and accosted the boy outside as he left.

“Here, boy,” he called, “it is me. You remember my face?”

“‘Course I know you Inspector Javert, every gamin knows to fear the back of your hand.”

Javert grunted,

“I treated you fairly before.”

“That’s why I’m approaching. What’d’you want? More information on my parents?”

“Just to speak with you.”

“About what?”

“Opportunities.”

“You’re not one of those diddlers are you? I’d bite your cock off you know, I’m no wimp.”

Javert ground his teeth,

“No,” he grated out, “I am not. We can speak in that cafe if you insist on it for your sense of safety.”

“Nah,” Gavroche replied, looking Javert up and down, hands on his hips, “I reckon I could take you. Lead the way, good man.”

Javert took Gavroche to the cafe they had attended before together and once again bought him a hot meal and drink. He waited patiently while the boy ate. 

“Well?” Gavroche said, impatiently,

“I went to look at your parents,” Javert said,

“You probably seen ‘em more recently than me.”

“That was my thought. I am in contact with a wealthy patron who provides children with homes and education.”

Gavroche raised an eyebrow at him,

“And he’s not a diddler?”

“No,” Javert said sternly,

“You sure?”

“Very.”

“And you’ve checked yourself?”

“Repeatedly.”

Gavroche sniffed and returned to dipping his baguette in his soup,

“Well, I know your reputation so I trust you.”

“Good. Does it interest you?”

“What?”

“Would you like to live in a rich man’s home and get an education?”

Gavroche shrugged. After a moment Javert growled,

“What does that mean?”

“Don’t care really.”

“What do you mean you don’t care!” he hushed his voice, aware of the attention he might draw, “boy, look at yourself: your clothes are too large and full of holes, you’re thin as a rake, you’re dirty, flea-bitten-”

“Alright, no need for that,” Gavroche said mildly, “it’s just I got me principles is all. And me pride. I’m no rich old codger’s hobby.”

Javert clapped his big hand over his face, grinding his fingers into his eyes,

“I’m an independent man,” Gavroche continued, “I been independent a long time. Don’t want to give that up just to wear a little bowtie and eat three meals a day.”

“What about an education?”

“What would I do with one of those?”

“Whatever you wanted: that’s the point,” Javert growled. 

“I don’t read,” Gavroche said, beginning on his cake,

“You could learn to. You strike me as an intelligent boy.”

“Don’t need to. Make money already. Don’t need an education for what I do.”

“And what will you do when you get older and nobody will pay you to carry letters.”

“Keep pick-pocketing probably.”

Javert ground his teeth, muscles of his jaw flexing. Every muscle in his arms wanted to reach out in a lunge and grab the boy up and drag him off to a cell. He resisted. He had been called by a higher purpose.

“Don’t say that to me,” he growled, “I am a police officer.”

“Sorry,” the boy said around a mouthful of sweet frosting, “forgor’.”

“Think on it then,” Javert said, “you could be anything you wanted. A police officer, a lawyer, an artist- whatever you wanted. You do not want to go to prison, surely?”

Gavroche shrugged his shoulders but said nothing. 

Javert rubbed his brow again and then rose,

“I paid for everything,” he said, “finish and leave whenever you’re ready. Just one thing: don’t mention this conversation to your parents.”

Gavroche blinked and then burst into laughter, spraying food from his mouth.

Having found himself at a dead end with Gavroche, Javert went to meet with Marius. If anyone had said that Javert would choose to visit Marius for personal reasons they would have been laughed at for being a fool. There were no two people on this earth who more longed to be out of each other’s company, who so looked at each other with disbelief that this individual could exist. Worst of all, Javert was having to once more request Marius’ assistance.

“And so that is the long and short of it,” Javert finished, “if the boy is to be lifted out of poverty by Monsieur Fauchelevent he first must be removed from his parent’s legally.”

Marius scratched at his weak beard, frowning,

“Well,” he said, “I must say I see no reason why any judge would want Gavroche to maintain a relationship with these Thernadier’s if this is how they treat him.”

“Indeed, but this cannot be taken to court.”

Marius’ frown deepened,

“Well then however do you expect us to take Gavroche into care?”

“I don’t know,” Javert answered, quickly correcting himself, “at least not yet. That is why I sought legal advice.”

“And you chose me because you know I know both individuals well, yes that was wise.”

In fact, Javert had chosen him because he thought he would assist him for free.

“I need you to use whatever resources you have access to as a legal student to research some solution to this problem.”

“Could Monsieur Fauchelevent not seek out a lawyer himself? I am not trying to shirk my duty here but it seems he is wealthy and might find someone with more influence?”

Javert turned his back on him so that he might grimace freely without Marius’ prying eyes on his face,

“No,” Javert said, “For there are some… complications as to why all of this must be done through me.”

Marius raised a brow and waited for Javert to be more forthcoming. After a moment, Javert turned on him snarling,

“You will pry!” he growled,

“Yes,” Marius said, standing and adjusting his waistcoat, “I would not be drawn into anything untoward or potentially harmful to my career. I must establish myself if I am to make a good husband to Cosette.”

Javert hit on something then,

“If you wish to assist Cosette then you must swear yourself to secrecy and ask no further questions.”

Marius looked startled by this,

“Whatever do you mean?”

“These Thernadier’s are famous extortionists and I believe they are in contact with the Patron Minette. You know that name, I see.”

“I do,” Marius said, “and you think that if they knew a wealthy old man had taken interest in the welfare of their child they might try to extort or harm him?”

“Yes,” Javert said, allowing Marius to lead himself into the half-lie. 

Marius raised his hand to his brow and rubbed there, eyes on the floor, face drawn in deep thought,

“Yes,” he said almost to himself, “if these people are as bad as you say they must indeed be kept from Cosette’s door.”

Javert nodded.

After a moment, Marius looked up at him,

“Thank you for entrusting me with this, Monsieur Inspector. I appreciate that you have sought me out in this time of need. I promise you, I will assist you as much as is within my power and, if it is not within my power, I will make it so.”

Javert suppressed a smirk and tipped his hat in thanks,

“I will leave you then,” he grunted and Marius replied,

“Let me see you out.”

“I know the way.”

 

Inspector Javert led himself out, gliding down the stairs like some great bird on silent wing. Behind him, Marius closed his door and stood in the dimness in his room. His mind was deeply disturbed. There were, warring in him, two great loves: his love for Cosette and his love for his father. He thought to himself that these Thernadier’s might hurt his love and that consequently he must defend her to his death. He also thought that these Thernadier’s might be the same who saved the life of his father, who had come upon hard times and done things they must regret. He pitied them. He created in his mind the idea that they might be redeemed in order to soothe the raging conflict of duty. He told himself this: that one sacred promise must not inevitably inhibit the fulfilling of the other. That he might do good by Cosette and right by those who his father had left him indebted to. He was terrified by the thought that he might have to betray his father’s promise and his promise to his father. His psyche could not bear this idea.

A cold sweat beaded on his pale brow and he had to sit down on his bed. He tugged on his little beard nervously. He felt himself on a dark, narrow path at risk of falling if he stepped incorrectly or wobbled either side. He felt the spectre of his father at his shoulder looking over him in expectation. What was Marius to do? Cosette: she was his idol. Having known her such a short time, he had come to think of her as an angel, as a saint. Indeed, she looked the part but most importantly she lived the part. She was devoted to kindness and charity, spending her time outside of school knitting blankets for the children’s hospital, teaching children at the church to read and write, and tending the garden with her father so they might live healthily from the land. What a good woman! And setting such good habits for the whole of her life! Yes, he could tell from her fine but modest dress and the way in which she talked happily of everything and everyone but herself that she would never be a demanding or shallow bride. Any money he made would go to good causes and might make him a proud and honoured man, not because he might be deemed good but because he would be considered so blessed to have found such a wife. His was not a religious man but felt he might believe in Christ’s good and gentle kindness when he sat beside her and listened to her speak with such delight of the children she helped. Would his father’s ghost resent him for having a duty to such a woman? Surely he could not? Yet Marius could not feel confident in that belief. He was still gripped by fear. He did something he did not often do and put together his hands and prayed. He did not pray to God, he prayed to his father: calling out to him and asking for him to answer him in his questioning.

Marius worked long into the late evening in the library of his grand old university, pawing through notable books on state adoption law. It did not help that this was not his area of personal interest for his struggled to know where to begin, but begin he did and he worked hard for it. When he could no longer bear the library, when even the vaulted ceiling began to feel oppressive, he requested several of the books that seemed promising and took them home. 

Stepping out of the carriage he a book toppled from the pile in his arms,

“Let me help you, Monsieur!” a voice called and Marius replied, over the pile,

“Oh, thank you, sir.”

“Here, let me take those from you, good gentleman.”

Marius let the man take the top three books from the pile and found himself face to face with his good neighbour Monsieur Jondrette.

“You are out late, Monsieur,” Marius said as they made their way up the narrow stairs,

“Oh well, oh well, you know how it is,” the male Jondrette said, “one must work all hours of the day if he is to provide for his family.”

“Indeed,” Marius agreed,

“You look yourself as if you have been working all day. Books on state law, how curious, how curious. I thought I might have been a lawyer myself once but you know how expensive these legal degrees are. Oh, to have an education! What a man I might have been! That is what my mother used to say. It is a tragedy she did not get to see her son reach his full potential.”

“It is!” Marius said sternly, finally reaching their floor, “a man’s potential should never be decided by his economic standing. I consider it a great honour and burden to pursue a legal career. It should be the duty of every good lawyer to engineer a better and fairer future.”

He fumbled to put the key in his door several times, sighed, put the books down, unlocked the door and then picked them up again. The male Jondrette pushed his way into his room quickly behind him as he placed the books on his desk.

“And you’re looking to be a state lawyer?”

“Oh no,” Marius said,

“Good money in that, I’m sure. I’m sure.” 

He was looking curiously about Marius’ room. No doubt he had wondered how a law student might live.

“Truthfully,” Marius said, “I am deeply unversed in this area. I will tell you,” he said, growing for a moment doubtful as the sight of the Jondrette’s sly and curious look but, he thought, this man has never given me reason to think so unkindly of him and I am doing nothing to be ashamed of, “I am looking to help my friend take legal guardianship of a poor boy, neglected by his parents’.“

“That is a terrible thing!” the man said, proving his good heart, “What a terrible thing! A boy you say! Tragic, tragic, that a parent should neglect their children. What a disgrace. We ourselves, my wife and I, well we had two daughters- both kidnapped from us!”

Marius gasped, touching his heart as if struck,

“My god!” he said, “did you inform the police!”

“Indeed, indeed, but the man was very rich and paid them off something pretty. Terrible thing. We have grieved all these years. We work so hard and keep our home in hopes they come back some day. We have never forgotten their names…” he paused for a moment as if thinking, “but anyway. It’s best not to dwell on these things. We must only hope they are living happy lives.”

Marius shook his head, “What a terrible, wicked thing,” he said. He stepped forward and placed an affirming hand on the male Jondrette’s shoulder,

“Monsieur, you are a good man to work so hard to care for your wife and support her in her grief.”

“Thank you, Monsieur,” the male Jondrette said, “I only wish it were a little easier. We work all day and yet we are still a week- two weeks late on our rent. What more can a man do?”

Marius grimaced. He reached into his pocket and fumbled the coins there. Finally, he could not excuse his selfishness and he pressed them into his neighbour’s hand,

“Here, Monsieur, it might not cover the full debt but I hope it might alleviate your hardship somewhat.”

“Thank you, good sir, really thank you. If my wife and I might ever do you a service…” he trailed off, bowing and backing out of the room.

“Oh!” Marius said, “there is something! You wife delivers letters does she not?”

“She does indeed, my beautiful wife.”

“If I wrote a one quick, might she deliver it for me?”

He leant on his desk and wrote, in short this:

That he was very busy with a legal case and might not be able to meet Cosette for the next two nights of more. That he would be thinking of her and that she had his heart.

He folded it and wrote on the outside the address:

55 Rue Plumet.

He handed it to that male Jondrette who looked at it with a smile.

“Thank you, Monsieur, I will deliver it into my wife’s hands forthwith.”

Marius thanked him again profusely and closed his door. He wiped his brow. He worried only on affording his next few meals. He thought nothing on his neighbours. He thought nothing of that so secret address that he had acquired with such labour and given away so freely. He knew not the value of it.

 

Disclaimer: I know nothing about 1800's French law or whatever, I don't even know when Les Mis is set. Feel free to tell me about it in comments if the whim takes you but don't think it'll make me make the effort. I am lazier than you are convincing ;)

Javert’s time was now so varied in how it was spent he did not know what to do with himself. It seemed he had made another ten hours for the day, for he worked, ate, slept, loved Valjean, attempted to befriend the daughters, and hazarded at taming the urchin Gavroche. On this particular day he was sitting in the park with the boy. The little boy was licking an ice-cream and kicking his feet as he watched the ducks,

“Look,” he said pointing, “look at the size of that fellow. I bet he’d be delicious.”

“Hmm.”

“He’s having a go at that little one. Nasty bastard. I’d wring his neck.”

“They’re ducks.”

“Take him to the guillotine, my brothers. Do you have anything I can throw at him?”

Javert sighed, dug through his pocket and found nothing. He leant over, sorted through the dirt around the seat a little and found a little stone. He placed it in Gavroche’s hand and Gavroche handed him the ice-cream for safe keeping so that he could run to the edge of the lake and pelt the big duck with his stone,

“Take this you, bastard!”

When he had successfully driven the duck away, he ran back, hooking up his trousers and took his dribbling ice-cream. He sat again and watched an old couple approach to feed the ducks.

 “Have you thought at all on the future?” Javert asked,

“Yeah,” Gavroche said, “all the time. I was talking with the boys, you know, my friends, and they said that it's good for members of the working class to get education.”

“So, you are interested then?”

“Maybe. I just don’t know what I’d do with an education.”

He looked down at his swinging feet,

“Buy new shoes maybe.”

“You could do anything you wanted,” Javert said gruffly, “you’re young enough to start your new life. As long as you are willing to put the work in and put aside your life of crime.”

“You make it sound so serious.”

“It is serious. You are on a direct path to the bagne if you do not make a big change.”

Gavroche sighed. Javert looked at him sternly,

“I have seen enough of it to know. What is it you want to do when you’re older? Think of anything.”

“Overthrow the bourgeois.”

“How?”

He shrugged.

“How are your friends doing it?”

“I’m no snitch.”

Javert sighed heavily,

“Then don’t tell me the illegal aspects then.”

“Lots of them are lawyers.”

“Would you want to be a lawyer then?”

Gavroche shrugged again.

“Would you?”

“Yeah,” he said half-heartedly, 

“You’re not sure.”

“I just think you’ve got your big head in the clouds.”

Javert frowned, turning his gaze back to the pond where the ducks were now happily quacking and splashing,

“You’re going to hold yourself back if you give in to self-doubt. I was born and raised in a prison. The only thing I had was the belief that I could get myself an education and become a police officer.”

Gavroche squinted up at him,

“You grew up in a prison and now you give criminals a good what for.”

“Yes.”

“That’s alright, I guess. I don’t wanna be a class traitor like you though, but I’d like to give some rich fellas a nice whooping.”

“You could do that in a courtroom.”

“Yeah,” Gavroche said, “well, alright.”

“Alright?”

“Alright. Yeah. Sure. I have gotta have my freedom though, I don’t want some old man breathing over my shoulder.”

“I understand.”

“So, what are you gonna do? Just pick me up and put me in a carriage or what?”

“No, we’ll find a legal way. You know Marius?”

“Floppy-haired wimp?”

“Yes.”

“Yeah.”

“He is assisting me. Doing legal research.”

“Alright, not the best lawyer in the friendship group but if he’s all you could get that’s alright.”

Javert scoffed in amused agreement.

 

The issue, of course, was how to get Gavroche legally into Monsieur Fauchelevent’s care without doing this through the traditional legal route. Of course, if Valjean had his way he would simply snatch up the boy, load him in a carriage and take him somewhere out of Paris. Given him a new name, a new look, new clothes, and then pretended like it had never happened. Javert was not this man and, if it were to work between them, they required a compromise. 

Javert met with Marius Pontmercy who told him of his thoughts on the issue and nothing of what secrets he had shared with his neighbour. 

“I simply don’t see how it can be done without a licensed lawyer. Coming before a judge could be perhaps avoided if the parents feared arrest, then they might not contest and it could be settled out of court. But to not hire a lawyer at all?” Marius said.

“And you cannot do it.”

“I would not. I am not a practicing lawyer, to use me could throw suspicion on Monsieur Fauchelevent’s position as a suitable guardian, and you did say you wanted things done privately.”

Javert rubbed a big paw over the back of his neck, frowning and pacing back and forth across the width of the small room.

“Yes,” he said.

After a moment he said,

“Arrest… what if the parents were to be taken into jail and the boy were to be left without guardianship at all? Perhaps it could be pushed for an emergency adoption?”

“Perhaps… but… there would have to be proof that the boy had some contact and previous relationship with Monsieur Fauchelevent, and again I think a lawyer would be required if only to appear in court for a day.”

Javert growled, wiping his hand over his face. 

“If only Monsieur Fauchelevent had a family member who might act on his behalf…” Marius sighed, resting his head in his hand, his elbow on his desk.

Javert grunted,

“What if… I were to adopt the boy.”

Marius looked up,

“Monsieur… that is a big responsibility-”

“I know that!” Javert snapped, “I’m not an imbecile! Val-Fauchelevent would assist me.”

He flushed and paled at his mistake, turning away quickly so Marius might not study his face.

“Are you sure a court of law would find you a suitable guardian for the boy?”

Javert turned at that, fists clenched in rage,

“How dare you! What are you suggesting!”

Marius paled and drew back,

“It is only- it is well known how you hurt that boy before. Are you not concerned that might harm your efforts.”

Javert faltered, he hung his head in shame, fists loosening,

“Yes,” he said, staggering to sit on the end of Marius’ bed,

“How our pasts hold us prisoner… but it is not so much past for me. I am still that cruel man, although I try to fight him. But I would not hurt Gavroche. To hurt him would be to hurt Monsieur Fauchelevent, which I could never do.”

“I believe you,” said Marius. 

Javert nodded his head.

After a minute he sighed and looked up,

“The plan is this then: I speak to Monsieur Fauchelevent and explain it is I who will adopt Gavroche. Then I speak to Gavroche himself on the issue. With his approval, I launch an investigation into his parents and have them arrested. While in court I offer to take guardianship of the boy.”

“Yes,” said Marius, “but you must hire a lawyer, if only for that day. Just in case.”

Javert nodded tiredly,

“I will go then,” he said, unfolding from the bed, “I will speak with Monsieur Fauchelevent forthwith.”

“Yes,” Marius said, “I am sorry I could not help you more.”

He held out his hand.

Javert looked at it for a moment as though it were some alien animal. He looked up at Marius’ face, expression inscrutable and then gave him and short firm shake of the hand. That was the best Marius could hope for. Javert tipped his hat and left.

Javert went straight to Valjean. What else could he do? Before he acts, a well-trained dog hearkens its ear to its master’s command.

Eponine let Javert in and they walked up the path together, speaking about very little in an amicable manner. Azelma still despised him, but he was satisfied that she would have hated anyone in his position so this he did not mind. 

“Ugh,” Eponine said as she let them in through the front door, “I have something you can do for me. To earn my favour.”

Javert rolled his eyes,

“Tell me.”

She reached into her dress pocket and drew out a crumpled-up letter,

“I haven’t given it to Papa because it annoys me. Not just me, even Cosette is annoyed by it and she’s a soft touch. Here.”

She handed it to him and he began to open it, frowning,

“Don’t feel bad reading it,” she said, “it’s not private. I think it is one of many copies, if you understand me. My wolf-nose smells something rotten with it.”

Javert pursed his lips as he read,

“Yes, you would make a good policeman. This is indeed a very suspect letter. You say your father has received them before?”

“Yes.”

“And he has been funding the life of this down-on-his-luck scholar?”

“Yes, he has answered each letter with money. I swear, if I roll my eyes any further they will fall clean out of my head. I have tried telling him but he won’t listen. He argues with me and tells me that he does not care if it is a scam, whoever is scamming him is clearly in need of charity and so on and so forth. You know the kind of nonsense.”

“I do. But do not treat him so harshly. Kind men must exist so hard ones like us might exist to protect them.”

“Yes, I suppose so. But it’s annoying when they don’t want to be protected. Sometimes when he starts on his kindness and forgiveness without limits, I want to scream.”

Javert scoffed as he tucked the letter into his inner pocket,

“Yes, I know the feeling.”

“But I still love him,” she added quickly,

“As do I.”

She smirked at that, a little embarrassed on his behalf, and they parted ways as Javert took himself into the living room. 

There Valjean was potting up some houseplants, getting soil on and in the carpet.

“Oh!” he said with delight at seeing Javert (Javert could never get tired of such a reaction to his presence,) “Hello my love!” 

Valjean had his sleeves rolled up, clearly confident that his arms were dirty enough with soil that his scars could not be seen. He was right. He looked as though he had been playing at being a mole. He held out those filthy hands to Javert, beckoning him into an embrace. Javert grimaced but he could not resist the gravitational pull of Jean Valjean and he found himself in the man’s filthy arms, pressing kisses to his cheeks.

“Monsieur,” he purred, 

“I am just planting up some houseplants,” Valjean explained superfluously,

“I see that,” Javert said, wrinkling his nose,

“Oh, that soil will brush off,” Valjean tutted, smiling as he brushed at Javert’s jacket making the mess worse, “I’m happy to see you, my love. I have been thinking about you. I have wanted to kiss you.”

Javert obliged him happily, leaning down to meet his lips,

“There,” Jean said, “my wish granted. What a beautiful day it is. How I have wanted to sit in the garden with you. Cosette has banished me from the kitchen, that is why I am in here. It is not ideal; I will have to tidy up all the much more! But she is baking cakes. It is her friend’s birthday soon and she is intent on making a quite spectacular strawberry and cream cake for her party. I cannot complain, I will be eating cake all week! What a wonderful thing: to sit in your own garden with your daughters eating cake and watching all the little animals enjoy themselves. I thought to myself, the only way this could be improved would be that my Javert would be here.”

Javert had turned a deep red at this, grinning wildly,

“There is nowhere I would rather be,” he said.

Jean grinned at him,

“Let me intrude on the kitchen and see if I might wash my hands and get us some lemonade! She has been making that too! Plentiful times indeed. Then we can sit together.”

He patted Javert’s arm and left him. Javert watched him go, a smile across his face before the thought crossed his mind of what they must speak on and it clouded his look. 

When Valjean returned, he seemed not to notice for he beamed and held out a little wooden plate with a slice of cake. Javert took it and they linked their free arms and went out into the garden together and took their seats at the little table in the shade.

“What a heaven,” Jean sighed, looking first at his garden and then at Javert. They smiled at each other and he reached out a laid his hand on Javert’s arm.  

“I must tell you something,” Javert said and Valjean frowned. Javert took and squeezed his hand,

“I have been speaking with Marius on the matter of you adopting Gavroche. I have been speaking to Gavroche also. Marius has said that it cannot be any other way than via a court if it is to be legal. I have told him that is impossible but not why.”

“Who is Marius?” Valjean said. 

Javert blanched,

“Oh,” he said, “well he is… he is a law student who has befriended your daughters. I thought he would be trustworthy because he is loyal to them.”

Valjean frowned,

“How loyal? How does he know them? How old is he?”

“He is a friend. He knows them via other friends. I do not know, on his twenties perhaps.”

At this Valjean’s scowl deepened,

“And what business does a twenty-year-old man have befriending seventeen-year-old girls?”

Javert now felt trapped by Valjean’s grip on his hand,

“Yes, well, I agree, however you know girl’s they are independent and they feel important befriending older people. Besides, we are getting distracted. We must speak on the matter of Gavroche.”

“You are avoiding answering my questions,” Valjean said, voice low, “that is unlike you.”

“I am only worried about intervening in your family business again. You were displeased with me before.”

“Yes, I was. Have you been keeping more secrets from me?”

“Not so much,” Javert said, “it is only there are some things your daughters should tell you not I.”

“But they clearly are not telling me,” Valjean said.

“Yes-”

“So you, as the adult should tell me.”

“If I tell you we shall not finish on the topic of Gavroche.”

At this, Valjean grew pale and he pulled his hand away to throw it over his face,

“Oh no, oh no,” he said,

“Don’t,” Javert said,

“Oh, lord help me,” Valjean continued, “my daughters! And they are being hunted by a predator! You have known about this and you encourage him by seeing him for assistance?”

“Of course not!” Javert said, growing annoyed, “you’re being ridiculous!”

“He is a man! They are children!” 

“I know that!” Javert argued, “the situation is in hand! I have been monitoring him!”

“Monitoring him!” Valjean cried, looking at him in shock and horror, “what kind of devil is he?”

“He is not a devil! I don’t think he even knows how young she is! Besides, they haven’t been together alone, or at least they have only ever been on opposite sides of the gate!”

“He is coming here! To my house?”

Valjean clapped his big hands over his face, shaking his head,

“Oh Javert, Javert, you vex me! You anger me! This is outrageous! You return to my life and you meddle in my family-”

“That is not fair-”

“And you lead that man I fled from to my home!”

“It was the opposite way around.”

“Then you have known about him that long! Hiding things from me with my daughters!”

“You are acting hysterical!”

Valjean threw himself out of his chair and began to pace the garden patio. His face had turned a terrible red. His hands were clasped so tightly at his back the veins and sinews popped. Javert sweated,

“We haven’t even spoken of Gavroche,” he said weakly,

“Which of my daughters?” Valjean growled,

“Cosette.”

“Cosette! My sweet naive Cosette! Even worse.”

“Cosette!” Valjean boomed. There was a clatter in the kitchen and then the little girl ran out, skirts in hand. She froze in the doorway as she caught sight of her father. She looked at Javert’s white face and then at her father’s red one. She trembled,

“Papa,” she squeaked,

“Cosette,” Valjean growled, “Cosette what is this I hear of you meeting with a man?”

“A man?” she said,

“Do not lie to me,” he said, very seriously, “I am tired of being lied to.”

“He’s not a man,” Cosette whispered, “he’s just a boy like me. His name is Marius and he is going to be a lawyer. His father was-”

“I don’t care what his father was!” Valjean boomed, “you have been meeting with a man and lying to me! He is no boy!”

Her trembling increased. Tears brewed in her eyes. 

“Papa-” she whispered. 

Eponine and Azelma had run to the kitchen doorway at the sound of their Papa’s rage and they clung to it.

“You are banished to your room,” Valjean said, “you have done a terrible thing keeping such secrets from me. A terrible thing. You must stay in your room until you realise the seriousness of it and learn not to lie.”

Eponine scoffed,

“The gall of you!” she cried out.

Valjean started,

“The gall of you! How dare you shout at her for lying! You are a liar Monsieur Madeleine!”

His face went ashen pale,

“You have taught us to lie! You have taught us to keep secrets!”

“Shut up, Eponine!” Azelma insisted, grabbing her sister by the arm and tugging her inside,

“No!” Eponine said, “Papa you’re not fair. Fauchelevent, Madeleine, whatever your name is- you are keeping secrets! You have been lying! Why do you think we would tell you the truth when all you do is lie to us? You think we don’t remember Inspector Javert? Or you? Come along Cosette,” she said reaching out her hand to her sister, “let’s go upstairs to our bedrooms so this old liar can think about how he has spoken to us!”

Cosette was trembling so that she could not move and it took both Eponine and Azelma to drag her indoors and out of sight. 

When the girls had disappeared, Valjean fell clean over. He hit the paving as Javert leaped from his seat and folded over him, cradling his head.

“Jean, Jean,” he murmured, wiping the sweat from the broad proud brow, “Jean, are you okay?”

Valjean trembled. His face creased with misery. He dropped his face into his hands and began to weep. Javert drew him further into his lap and wrapped his long arms around him, holding him close and rocking him gently.

“I am a terrible father,” Jean mumbled, “I am a wicked father. My daughters must hate me to wish to keep me from their lives.”

“They don’t” Javert murmured, “they don’t. They are only teenagers; they wish to grow up and be free. They do not hate you; they hate authority.”

“I am cruel. See how I frightened Cosette. She is such a good girl. But, oh, so was her mother and look what happened to her! That is what older men do to nice girls like Cosette.”

“I know.”

“But you let her see him? Why?”

“Because we cannot protect them by denying them their freedom, that only makes them resist. You know that. What did prison do to you but make you wish to escape it? How many times did you try to flee? Would you want that? For your household to become a prison and your daughters’ escapees, running into the arms of men who offered them the illusion of freedom?”

Valjean had pressed his face into Javert’s chest. He did not move. He was entirely tense. Slowly he shook his head.

“You are afraid, Jean, and they sense your fear. That is why they keep secrets from you. They love you and do not want to cause you upset.”

“What should I do then, seeing as you are such a better father than me?” Jean growled against him.

Javert started and then looked hurt,

“Talk to them I suppose, and be gentle with them. Remind them you love them. Give them no reason to wish to leave. And, if you are ready, tell them some of the truth so they might understand why you are so afraid.”

Valjean’s hands had gripped Javert’s arms bruisingly and they held tight. They sat together on the paving and said nothing to each other. Eventually, Javert said,

“You are angry with me.”

“Very.”

“You hate me?”

“... no.”

“You could forgive me?”

“You leave me no choice.”

“You have a choice.”

“No, I don’t. I could not love you and yet not forgive you. But I am very angry.”

“I must tell you something on the matter of Gavroche. He is willing to be adopted but cannot be adopted by you. I am going to adopt him.”

Valjean looked up at him, eyes wide and wet and red,

“What?”

“I am going to adopt him.”

“Why?”

“Because you cannot.”

“But- you- you do not wish to be a father?”

“I have never said that,” Javert frowned, “I just never had reason to consider it and thought I should be very bad at it, but… I was hoping you would help me. I was hoping you would be a good father to him so that I might learn to be a mediocre one.”

Jean’s face twisted and then softened in a look somewhere between pain and disbelief and anger and love all at once,

“Javert…” he said, “that is… that is a huge responsibility.”

“I know.”

“It might not be right for you. You might regret it. To do it for me only would be wrong-”

“I’ve decided already. I only need to talk to the boy and get his approval. He might not want me anyway. I wouldn’t blame him.”

“You would really…?” Valjean whispered, trailing of. He lifted one large hand and very tentatively cupped Javert’s jaw,

“Javert,” he whispered, voice soft with wonder, “I am so very angry with you but I love you so much.”

Javert grinned nervously,

“Good.”

“Lean down so I might kiss you.”

Javert did eagerly, letting Jean draw him down into a long tender kiss. When they drew apart Valjean whispered,

“You would adopt Gavroche?”

“Yes. So, we might all be a family.”

“Together,” Jean whispered, still gazing at him in awe, “a family.”

“Yes,” Javert said, “a family. If you would have me.”

 “Of course I would.”

 

Javert struggled to lift Jean to his feet (he really was very dense) and Valjean limped on his bad knee having banged it when he fell. They clung to each other, gazing into each other’s eyes,

“I should apologise to Cosette,” Valjean said sadly. Javert pecked him on the lips. 

“And to Eponine and Azelma.”

Javert kissed him again,

“Yes, and what will you tell them of your many names?”

 At this Jean grew reticent,

“Jean…” Javert said seriously,

“I don’t know,” Jean sighed pushing his face again into Javert’s chest, “can you blame me for not wanting to deprive three girls of the ideal of their childhood?”

“You’re not doing that,” Javert said, levering him back so he couldn’t hide his face, “they already know some of the truth. You heard what Eponine said. You have been underestimating them or, worse, deluding yourself. Be honest with them. Or at least give them some degree of honesty.”

Valjean nodded sadly, begrudgingly. Javert turned him on the spot and pushed him toward the door, 

“Go on then. Unless you want me with you?”

Jean shook his head. He headed to the door. He stopped in the doorway and gazed at Javert beggingly. Javert shook his head, once more the harsh and unmerciful master. Valjean sighed heavily and went in. Javert went in after him and stood at the bottom of the stares as Jean trudged up.

“I will go and speak to Gavroche and let you know what he decides,” he called.

Jean nodded but did not look back. When he reached the landing Javert left. 

 

He had to return to work and finished up the paperwork he had to complete and then went looking for Gavroche. He could not find him. This was understandable.

He went looking for him the next day during his regular patrol. He caught the boy by the ear as he was about to sneak an apple from a stall.

“Ah-ah,” he said, pulling Gavroche away, 

“Ge’r’off me old man!”

“You won’t be doing those things in the future will you,” Javert said seriously, releasing his ear. 

Gavroche stood in front of him, lip pouting defiantly, arms folded over his chest,

“I wasn’t doin’ nothin’.”

“Don’t treat me like a fool. I need to speak with you.”

“Oh, yeah. ‘bout what?”

“This letter,” Javert said. He took it from his inside pocket and handed it to Gavroche. 

“Use your intellect and tell me who wrote it. It is practice for when you’re older in the courtroom.”

Gavroche opened it and looked over it, making little show of reading it.

“By the curve on the ‘y’ it looks like my dad’s.”

“That was what I thought. We will make a lawyer of you yet,” he held out his hand and Gavroche handed it back.

“What is it?” he said,

“You tell me.”

“Askin’ for money.”

“Yes.”

“He asks me to deliver ‘em sometimes. When he remembers I exist.”

“His committing fraud. Would it offend you if he were arrested?”

Gavroche frowned at this and scratched his chin,

“I’d have to think about that one.”

“Hmm, well think about it. And think about this too: due to some issues of the law it would be better if I adopted you.”

“What’s that mean?”

“I would adopt you and be your father.”

“Oh,” Gavroche said, putting his hands on his hips and giving him an appraising look, “and what’d’you fancy you’d do if you were my dad? Give me a good caning I bet.”

“No,” Javert said seriously, “my time for beating gamin has passed. I would get you some better clothes, send you to school and feed you I imagine. Make sure you do your homework.”

Gavroche sighed,

“And stop me stealing. Would you make me quit my job?” 

“I would prefer to get you a better one.”

“Would you stop me seein’ me friends?”

“No. Your friends and time would be your own when your school and homework was done. I would only want you home to have your dinner in you and see you in bed at a reasonable time so you didn’t fall asleep in school.”

Gavroche hummed and went back to scratching his chin.

“Alright,” he said, “and where’d you live? Some fancy place?”

“A little flat. I’d have to set you up a bed in the closet perhaps on the other side of the room.”

“You know what,” Gavroche said, “I’d prefer that to some big palace. I’m a simple man, with simple needs.”

“As am I.”

“Well,” Gavroche said, “I’ll think about it. Get back to me.”

“Alright,” Javert said, “but don’t take too long. I’m a busy man and want to begin my investigation. I would like your assistance.”

“Yeah, alright,” Gavroche groused, “talk to me tomorrow, and bring your cash I’ll want lunch.”

He held out a hand,

“Got any change? My pocket money, innit.”

Javert grumbled but searched around in his pockets for some coins and dropped them into Gavroche’s waiting hand.

“There,” he said, “now use those to buy some food legally.”

Gavroche saluted,

“Yes, boss.”

He giggled as he turned and ran off down the street, too-big shoes flapping on the paving. Javert sighed. Would that be parenthood? A little hand constantly grasping for what little money he had? Of course it would be. Who was he fooling? 

He wondered how Valjean was doing. If the man was actually being honest for the first time in his life or if he was conjuring more lies to deceive his children. Javert hadn’t realised how many secrets he had been keeping from Valjean until he was confronted on them. He felt ashamed. And yet how easy it had been to lie to Valjean when he had believed he was protecting him and protecting their relationship. He had always thought people who lied did it out of purely malicious intent. That they were all cunning and devious people. It was, in fact, very easy to lie. Even when you had no intention to. Still, he should not make excuses for himself.

He wondered if he should not see Valjean this evening, if it would be best to stay away, but at the same time, he knew he was only trying to avoid the man because he was afraid. He was a coward. He had to find out if Valjean lied and what that would mean for them; if they would fight again. He did not want to fight. He could not accept being Valjean’s partner but not a parental figure to the girls. He could not be in the household and the family and yet kept on the outside. That would need to be something they discussed. It wasn’t that he wished to be a father, only that he did not want to be scolded when he made a decision to benefit the girls. He wondered what Valjean would decide on the Marius issue too. He wondered if he should speak to Marius and warn him off Cosette now he had made use of him. That seemed a potential risk, after all Marius might strike out against Valjean if he suspected something. He knew there was some issue of legality and had resources available to him. Javert put these thoughts aside and focussed on his work. One thing at a time. Who was he to rush into being a parent of four when he had no idea if he would make a good parent to one? He did something uncharacteristic then and crossed himself. He truly felt he needed God on his side.

 

Impatient, Javert went about filing the paperwork for the investigation into the Jondrettes and their fraud scheme. It would be easier with Gavroche’s assistance but he was willing to forgo the boys wants and needs if it meant getting what he wanted: the Thernadiers in jail and Valjean safe. He believed, in his stubborn and still hard soul, that he could take Gavroche’s loyalty by force: either by pushing for his adoption as necessity or by wearing him down through a stay at an orphanage. Javert was still a flawed man. Valjean had only softened him somewhat. In his mind, first and foremost came Valjean’s safety and he did not consider how that drive might push them apart. If he were worrying about anything pushing them apart, which he was, it was Valjean’s stubbornness and possessiveness of the girls. 

Valjean’s recent forgiveness of Javert’s machinations had perhaps emboldened Javert too much.

He met Gavroche for lunch as planned and, having fed and watered the growing boy, he got straight down to business.

“Well,” he said, “will you be my son or no?”

Gavroche shrugged,

“Don’t shrug at me. You said you would think on it.”

“I did,” he said,

“Well then you didn’t think hard enough. I need your decision. Is this because you’re undecided on your parents? There is still loyalty to them on your part.”

Gavroche scowled, digging his fork into the table to gouge out the wood, he didn’t answer.

“Well?”

“You should shut up,” Gavroche snapped, “I don’t have any loyalty to my mum or dad! I just don’t want to put anyone in prison. Prison is horrible.”

 “Of course it is, that’s why horrible people go to prison.”

Gavroche pouted harder,

“The boys say it’s not like that.”

“The boys are stupid children in school.”

“So nobody good or decent ever goes to prison?” Gavroche said, scowling at Javert. Javert paled and then redenned, scowling hard in return,

“I’m not saying that,” he grumbled, “but in this case it would be true. You know your parents are scum.”

Gavroche turned his face down, digging harder,

“You know it’s true,” Javert said.

“If my parents are scum then I’m scum too, you reckon,” Gavroche said,

“We’re both scum,”

Gavroche looked up with surprise and hurt,

“That’s how the world sees us,” Javert said, “due to how we were born and who we were born to. We can choose to live up to their expectations or defy them. Your friends are not like us, they see the world from a position of privilege. It’s true I am not always right when I say all those in prison are bad, but I can say I have seen more of those in prison than your friends. I chose to not live that life. I chose to fight against other’s expectations and make myself respectable. If you want to be scum in the gutter like your parents you are free to make your choice, we have free-will for that reason. If you want to make something meaningful of your life you have that choice too. Don’t expect me to pander to you or wipe your tears, I’m not that sort of man. But I will help you make a man of yourself, get you a good job, make you presentable, and help you put away your past if that is what you want.”

Gavroche began to dig at the wood again and Javert’s big hand took the knife from him and put it down on the table,

“Do not destroy property that does not belong to you.”

Gavroche rubbed his eyes on the back of his sleeve,

“You’re a real bastard,” he said,

“Yes.”

“I don’t wanna go to prison.”

“Then make your decision. The world will not wait for you while you dither. You have to make decisions and stick by them. That is what men do.”

Gavroche smeared snot over the back of his arm and scrubbed his eyes with his grubby hands.

“Aw’right,” he mumbled.

“You will come to the police station and make a legal report that your parents are the ones distributing and producing these letters?”

“Yes.”

“And in court you will stand up and say whatever the lawyer recommends you say?”

“Yeah.”

“And then you will accept becoming my son and you will go to school, have you hair cut, replace your clothes, and clean up your life.”

Gavroche looked up at him sullenly. There was something of hate in his look before it was overcome with resentful acceptance,

“If I don’t what’ll happen to me?”

“I don’t know,” Javert said, “because your life will be in your hands, not mine.”

Gavroche dug his thumbnail into the table top instead. He sighed,

“I don’t know what I’m gonna do when I grow up. I never really thought about it. Enjolras said… he said: did I wanna die in a gutter or in a prison? I was so angry. I was so angry. Who was he to talk to me like that. I pulled my knife on ‘im I did, I asked him how he wanted to die…he wasn’t scared at all. He called me a little boy. A scared little boy,”

“We’re all scared little boys,” Javert said seriously,

“I bet you’re not,” he grumbled, 

“I was. I am still, sometimes.”

Gavroche looked up at him,

“Why you scared if you beat everyone up? Everyone is scared of you.”

“Even I am scared of me,” Javert said, clenching his hands on the table. Now his claws dug at the wood. Gavroche mulled on this. 

“I wanted Enjolras to be scared at me. It don’t make you happy to make people scared?”

“It used to.”

“It gets boring.”

“I suppose that’s one way of looking at it.”

“But I could make people listen to me?”

“With an education and financial support, yes.”

“I don’t wanna die in the gutter,” he said seriously, “I don’t wanna be like you either. But nobody else wants me so,”

He stuck out his little, dirty hand. Javert took it and shook it firmly,

“Good man,” he said.

“One day,” Gavroche answered, “or at least I hope so.”

 

 Javert had it in mind to solve all of Valjean’s problems today. He felt very much at the peak of his power. He went to see Marius. 

Knocking sharply on the door he was pleased to see Marius open it, scrubbing his eyes. Javert pushed his way inside. 

“It is high-time I spoke with you on a matter of grave importance.”

“Monsieur,” Marius said, stumbling over the word, “I am afraid I have been studying all night. I am very tired. I have to go out-”

“That is not my concern. We all work hard. Now, listen here. Cosette is seventeen years old,”

Marius started. Javert continued,

“You need to step back in your courting of her, she is far too young for you.”

“Monsieur,” Marius said, “you have known for some time my intentions with Cosette. You know they are pure and good. I admit, I didn’t realise how young she was but-”

“But nothing. I am telling you now to step back.”

“But,” Marius said, and he went to his desk and pulled a letter out from a draw, “her father has invited me to dinner.”

Javert blinked,

“Oh,” he said, “well, no doubt he is wanting to warn you off himself.”

“I was going to thank you for speaking well of me,” Marius said frowning, “but considering your thoughts I assume you haven’t been.”

“That is untrue,” Javert said, “but that does not mean that I do not care about Cosette’s well-being. You ought to consider stepping back. Be her friend, that is acceptable, if unusual, but courting her?”

Marius coloured and then paled and then coloured again,

“Monsieur,” he started, scowling, “I have only good intentions. I love her, I would not hurt her.”

“If you love her you will wait for her,” Javert said, folding his arms over his chest and stepping up so that he might best loom over Marius, “I have waited six years for Monsieur Fauchelevent. That is love. Would you wait six years for Cosette?”

Marius was as white as a sheet. When he spoke his voice was quiet and weak,

“But what if she loved someone else?”

“Then you would fight for her, when the time came. Love is to be fought for, not died for or supplicated before. You are a man, aren’t you?”

Marius dipped his head,

“Yes, sir.”

Javert grunted, satisfied and turned to the door. Marius called out,

“Monsieur! You really think that Monsieur Fauchelevent doesn’t like me?”

“I know it. Consider my warning an act of generosity. Consider what I have said today and go to Monsieur Fauchelevent with patience in mind.”

“Monsieur, wait!” Marius called again as Javert turned the doorhandle, “I am leaving now for Monsieur Fauchelevent’s for dinner. Surely if you- if he- if you and he- if you are- well… surely you would be going there for tea also?”

Javert had cringed at the way Marius had stumbled over his meaning. He shuddered all over,

“Yes,” he grumbled,

“Well then,” Marius said meekly, “might be split a cab?”

“Fine,” Javert growled,

“Thank you!” Marius replied, perking up, “I just need to write a note for my neighbours the Jondrettes! I am expecting a letter and they will take it in for me!”

Javert whirled on the spot, lunged and grabbed him by the front of his shirt,

“The Jondrettes!” he snarled, “How well do you know that couple? 

Marius paled again,

“I- they are kind people. They’re my friends.”

“Your friends! You have not told them anything of Cosette?!”

“I- why?”

“Why! Stupid boy! The Jondrettes and the Thernadiers are the one and the same!”

Marius’ mouth opened and closed, flapping helplessly. He mouthed, ‘what? What?’ but seemed unable to bring up the words.

“What do they know?” Javert growled, teeth clenched and bared,

“They delivered a letter for me,” Marius squeaked. 

The blood drained from Javert’s face, he knew the answer but asked the question,

“Where?”

“To number 55 Rue Plumet.”

Javert stormed into the corridor and banged furiously on the Jondrette’s door. No answer. Snarling he stepped back and kicked the door. The bang echoed down the stairs. Below, the old matron who kept the house, screamed. Javert kicked the door again and it splintered open. The room was abandoned. He howled. Marius stood in the doorway of his room and Javert pushed him out of the way so hard that he fell back onto the bed. Javert grabbed a piece of paper and scratched out a quick missive. He flew downstairs, found the first man on a horse he could and pushed the letter into the man’s hand, snarling,

“Police business! Rue Plumet 55! Now!”

The man held onto his hat and, with a look of shock, took off. Javert ran across the street and jumped in front of a carriage waving it down. He slammed open the door, dragged out the women who sat inside and barked,

“Rue Plumet 55!” at the driver who at first argued and then grew afraid when Javert threatened him with his cane, “Go! Now!” 

Marius stumbled out of the front door and jumped in behind Javert.

“What are you doing?” Javert snarled, “You’ve done enough!”

“I didn’t know!”

“Get out!”

“You’re wasting time!” Marius snarled. Javert could not argue with this.

The night was dark and cold, and rain fell down in sheets. The rattling of the wheels on the paving clattered in rhythm with Javert’s mad thoughts. Marius, thankfully, said nothing. His knee bouncing, his nails being chewed to the flesh. Javert’s hands dragged at his beard, his teeth gnashed. His eyes were wild and white. His heart pounded in his chest. God help him, God help Jean Valjean. If something were to happen to him, through Javert’s own foolishness, he could not bear it. God help him. He clasped his hands between his knees and bent his head. God help him.  

 

Warning: Violence and violence against children

The carriage pulled up at Rue Plumet 55 and before the driver could stop, Javert was jumping out, Marius tumbling out behind him. Javert pushed a handful of coins into the driver’s hand and slapped the horse on its rump to send it clattering away down the street and out of sight. The house was dark but for a single weak light in the downstairs and one lit on the floor above. An empty carriage was parked outside. Javert inspected it, grim-faced. There was no driver. The horses shuffled from foot to foot and snuffled nervously. Javert went to the gate, it was unlocked, pulled-to to appear closed. He grinned a horrible grimace of nervous anger. 

“Hold the horse,” he commanded Marius. Marius blinked at him stupidly,

“Hold the reins!” Javert snarled, and Marius ran and did as he was told.

“Hold tight,” Javert warned him and then he kicked the spokes on the rear wheel, on the side that faced away from the house. The horses’ whinnied with fear and he kicked once and then twice more until two of the spokes broke and the wheel was dislodged. It would slow any attempt at escape. Maybe even force them to stop and change vehicle. He scrubbed his nose with the back of his hand.

“Stay out here and stay hidden,” he snarled to Marius jabbing at him with a claw,

“No,” Marius said, grey-faced, “this is my fault, I should help.”

“Do you have a weapon?”

“...No.”

“Can you fight?”

“I… no.”

“Then stay here and be useful here. I will try and find the girls and send them out to you. Remain hidden and when you have them calm them and take them somewhere to safety.”

“What about the police?”

“I am the police.”

“We might need more police-”

“No! No police!” Javert snapped, “do as you're told for god’s sake! The longer I argue with you the worse things can get! Hide!”

They both went in through the gate and Marius climbed behind some bushes and squatted down. Javert did not go down the path but climbed through the bushes also, heading round the house to the back garden.

As with any place he went, he had been making a mental map of Rue Plumet 55 every time he had visited. In his free time, which at first had been much because Jean had not known of his midnight visits, he had gone to the library and taken out the architectural plans of the surrounding houses on the street and similar streets and studied them. Why? Because he had still been thinking like the hunter and had wanted, if Jean had attempted to escape, to have been able to follow and track him and not be surprised by his sudden disappearance again. 

Javert went first to the little window in the kitchen. He had noticed that the little window was kept on the latch and never fully closed. He walked stooped, knees bent so that he might be below the sill of the window and stay out of sight, and he hugged both the wall and the shadows.

When he came to the little window he crouched against the wall and listened. Indeed, he could hear voices within. They were distant and so he dared to raise himself until his eyes peered over the sill. Between the kitchen and sitting room there was a doorway and from his viewpoint he could see through this doorway, across the little walkway where the stairs led up to the second floor and partially into the sitting room, but there he could see very little. Still, what he could see benefitted him. The light he had seen through the downstairs window was a roaring fire. Standing near to the front hall that led to the door, were three men. One large, two smaller. The large man looked to be holding some kind of metal rod and had his arms crossed. The two leaner men also seemed to be holding improvised weapons, one perhaps was a knife, the other he was not so sure. They seemed to all be watching something and were not speaking. As he watched another man appeared, pacing a route which brought him into Javert’s view. This man was speaking, low and vitriolic. He was very small and slightly hunched, bone thin and was gesturing with a tool of some kind. Javert realised it was a hot poker taken from the fire. He listened closely. He recognised this man’s voice somewhat and thought: this man is Thernadier. He was talking angrily to someone out of view. 

As he watched and listened, he heard another low man’s voice speak, a more youthful voice. This voice and Thernadier spoke briefly, they seemed to grow annoyed with each other. They were met with another voice like a young boy. Then Javert had to duck behind the wall as a fifth man followed by either a sixth large man or a very large and unfortunate looking woman went up the stairs. Javert waited, breathing quietly through his mouth. He heard another man’s voice briefly, a shout of frustration from Thernadier,

“Well go on then!” and then the sound of a man’s footsteps coming into the kitchen.

Whoever this devil was, he began to open cupboards, clattering through and throwing out their contents. Javert put down his cane and took out his baton. He rose quietly, took a knife from his boot and jimmied the window off the latch, holding it to avoid it swinging open. The man, hunched with his head in a cupboard did not notice him. The man was alone, Javert judged this by peeking up over the windowsill, and he was moving around the room from the opposite side towards Javert’s direction. He was making a tremendous clattering as he made his way and so it was easy to keep track of his movement. Twice his fellows hissed from the other room- “Be quiet!”- and twice he ignored them. When he came towards the window Javert pushed it open with a quiet, long whine. At the same moment the very large woman came down the stairs dragging Eponine and Cosette by their hair, one girl in each hand. Valjean made a muffled noise as the girls cried for their Papa. The man in the kitchen came curiously to the window. Javert popped up, struck him directly in the Adam’s apple with the tip of his cane which had the man swallowing and clutching at his throat. Javert leant in through the window, clasped him in his big hands and dragged him into it. The clattering of the man’s feet as he was drawn out of the window was presumed to the be the clattering of him emptying drawers. The crying of the girls and the woman’s angry threats for them to be quiet covered any suspicion. The man collapsed into the grass and Javert hunched over him and struck him twice over the head with his baton. Once, he struggled, twice, he was still. 

Javert huffed and puffed with animal rage. He dragged the man into the bushes and concealed him. He returned to the window. He could not see the woman and girls. Valjean was in the sitting room by the fire, this he now knew. He did not know what to do: save Valjean or search for the girls. At the same time, he knew exactly what to do: selfishly he loved Valjean more than the girls all put together. No matter what decision he made he could not stay by the kitchen window, the men would come looking for their friend. He did not head towards the front door; he headed further behind the house towards the garden door. He had made his decision.

In the bushes by the gate Marius squatted, trembling with anticipation. He heard the front door bang open and the thumping and scuffling of feet. He suddenly wondered if he were concealed well enough from view. He did not know what he would do if he were spotted. A woman came pushing through the bushes. She was ginormous. Fat as well as muscular. In her right-hand she had clenched Cosette’s hair, pulling it to the point of bleeding her scalp. Cosette was streaming with tears but she was mute. In the ginormous left-hand Eponine was struggling, he long dark hair tangled up in the fat fingers. She was scratching at the woman’s ruddy arm, chewing on the fabric that had been tied around her mouth to silence her. She fought and kicked the woman. The woman was talking to her in a low voice. Something about how she was ungrateful, how she could hate her own mama after her mama had spent all this time looking for her. Marius could not believe this woman was anyone’s mama. He thought it impossible this creature could have any motherly instinct. He was filled with loathing of her. He realised he recognised her: Madame Jondrette. His loathing increased. This creature was the wife of the man who had rescued his father. 

Still, he did not move.

The woman passed him and he realised that the youngest girl, Azelma, was trailing obediently behind her, unclasped, unbound, clutching at the monster’s dresses like an elephant held its mother’s tail. She was gazing up at the back of this brute’s head with wide-eyed awe, halfway between fear and helpless love. They went through the gate together.

Outside, the woman said,

“There’s my dear Azelma, there’s my darling, climb into the carriage for me there’s a good girl. We will go away soon and all be together again, father and mother and my beautiful darlings.”

Azelma went to the carriage and climbed up and stopped only so that that monstrous woman could kiss her face.

“Oh, my beautiful girls,” the woman said, voice distorting with genuine pained love, “How I’ve missed you! How Mama has loved you! And you!” she snarled, drawing Eponine in front of her with a forceful yank of her hair, “get in that carriage you ungrateful wretch! All I’ve done for you and you’ve lived in luxury! You horrible little harlot!”

Eponine struggled, she kicked out one foot and caught the woman in her skirts. Enraged the woman threw her against the side of the carriage. Cosette made no noise, only trembled. Eponine kicked her from her position on the floor and dreadful beast raised her foot to stomp on her. Marius struck her over the back of her head with a paving slab. She flopped to the floor and lay still.

Azelma shrieked and threw herself over her monster-mother, weeping,

“Mama! Mama!”

Eponine yanked at the knot behind her head. Marius clutched at Cosette and said,

“Cosette! My love!” she did not acknowledge him, only stared.

“Have I killed her?” Marius asked himself, “Is she dead?”

He was too afraid to touch to the woman to find out. Eponine finally spat out the wadded-up material and grabbed at her youngest sister, wrenching her from the still form on the ground,

“Get off of her!” she snarled,

“Get off of me!” Azelma cried, eyes red with tears, “I hate you! I hate you!” she beat her sister with her fists. 

Still Cosette did not move.

“Is she dead?” Marius whispered. He made tentative steps towards the body and dipped to touch its neck. Before his fingers could reach skin, he grew afraid and turned away. Cosette moved to squat and reached out with her fingers and felt for the pulse,

“She is alive,” she said. Marius passed his hand over his face,

“I am not a murderer,” he said.

“We have to get the police!” Eponine urged, wrapping her struggling sister in her arms, “we have to alert the neighbours and summon the police!”

“We can’t!” answered Marius, “Monsieur Javert made me swear-”

“I don’t care!” Eponine snarled, “They’re torturing our father!”

 

Violence and death

The giant Gueulemer exhaled through his nose. The metal rod had begun to weigh in his hand and he was losing interest in holding it or in much of what was going on. This little rat, Thernadier, was wasting time complaining and monologing about something that had little to do with money. He turned his eyes up to the ceiling. The old man’s house was nice enough but not enough that he could really believe this fellow was as rich as Thernadier insisted he was. He dropped his eyes to the old man slumped in the chair by the fire. He wasn’t saying much of anything and what he was saying wasn’t all that clear. Montparnasse had complained Gueulemer had hit him too hard with the metal rod but they’d all gone on about how strong this old fellow was and to be honest he had been pretty strong so what else was Gueulemer to do? It was better to get him fast and hard than give him time to make a bunch of noise and alert the neighbours. Of course, he couldn’t seem to do anything right, could he? He scoffed. He frowned,

“Where’s Babet?” he said. Thernadier ignored him, crouched by the old man’s side, whispering wickedly to him,

“Where’s Babet?” Gueulemer said again and Thernadier shot him an annoyed look. Gueulemer rolled his eyes,

“I guess I’ll go look for him then,” he grumbled to himself. He moseyed into the kitchen, expecting to find Babet there, but he found it empty; the contents of the draws spread out all over the floor,

“Fuck,” he grunted. There was a little side window open and he moved to it and poked his head out and looked left and then right, “Fuck.”

He went back into the sitting room,

“Babet’s missing,” he growled, “I got a bad feeling about this. I’m going to check the perimeter.”

“What’s the point of hiring professionals?” Thernadier murmured, loud enough for Gueulemer to hear. The Hercules rolled his eyes.

He took himself to the door that exited into the garden and he went out. It was pitch dark. The high walls around the garden blocked out much of the light from the street. The fire in the sitting room pushed a little out into the garden in a weak orange semi-circle but then it gave up. The majority of the available light was from the moon, which kept creeping behind the clouds. Gueulemer spat. His skin crawled. He had a bad feeling about all this.

“Babet,” he whisper-shouted. No answer.

“Babet?” He was getting annoyed now. He had the distinct feeling he was being watched. He bit the bullet, gritted his teeth and stepped out of the light and deeper into the garden. He headed towards the bushes, hissing,

“Babet?” 

He crept along the edge of the bushes until he was well out of the semi-circle of light. He spat and cursed and then thought, fuck Babet. At that moment he saw the tips of a pair of shoes peeking out of a bush. He grinned horribly. He crept forward, saying aloud,

“Fuck Babet, I’m going indoors!” and with that he swung the metal bar down with a sickening thud and crack!

Luckily for him, Gueulemer had his head tucked into his shoulders so they absorbed most of the blow when the baton cracked over his head. He twisted, mostly shaking it off through force of will, and grabbed the arm of his opponent, throwing him to the ground. He raised the metal rod and brought it down. His assailant raised his arm to block it and there was a painful- crack!

The man planted his foot in Gueulemer’s ball sack and Gueulemer folded to his knees. The man headbutted him in his nose, flattening it, and Gueulemer met him with a punch to the face that knocked his head. The man’s long legs wrapped around Gueulemer’s waist and he rolled them over, raining blows on Guelemer’s head. The Hercules ignored them and fired his own heavy, loose swings back. When the man brought his arms up to block his head he threw the guy off.

They rolled on the grass a little and then separately came to the idea of stumbling to their feet. Gueulemer got up first and he scrambled about for the metal rod, nudging it with his foot he reached for it and then he was grasping at his throat, gasping. The man’s legs wrapped around his waist, the full weight of his body dragging down on Gueulemer and the thin wrap of twine that was clenched around his throat. Gueulemer scratched red stripes over his own throat, eyes bulging, body twisting. When he couldn’t get his fingers under the twine, he grabbed at the man’s legs to try and dislodge him. He could not. He staggered. His wheezing turned to a throaty gargle. He slumped to the grass.

Javert held on a little longer, hands clenched white around the twine, his face in a grotesque mask: all teeth and whites of his eyes. When he unclenched his fists, his palms were bleeding, the twine having bitten through his skin leaving long lines of raw red flesh. He staggered to his feet, puffing fearsome breaths. He stumbled and caught himself before he could fall to his knee. Gueulemer lay twisted at his feet, face-down in the grass. Javert looked around for his baton, he couldn’t find it. He reached to his belt and found his gun, took it out and checked it was loaded. It wasn’t. He staggered into the light pool by the door, tucked himself against the wall and loaded it. Wiped the blood from his nose and spit from his mouth.

There were two or maybe three criminals left inside. His arm was fractured, that is certain. He couldn’t afford too much close combat. He doesn’t ask God for help; God does not help with these sorts of deeds.

Montparnasse was tired of searching this old man’s house. He’d found little of value; at most he could get some pay from selling the two silver candlesticks he had dug out from the old man’s drawer but it would hardly make the effort of travelling and staking out the place. Worst of all was the presence of children. The Thernadier man had never mentioned children and if he had Montparnasse would have turned him away immediately. There was nothing worse than working with children, except perhaps working with animals or women. Children always added an element of unpredictability. He decided that if he were not going to make any profit from the enterprise, he would at least have a little fun with it and he went back downstairs to torture the old man.

Thernadier cursed and spat in a vitriolic hiss but, by God, there was no fire on earth that could melt the cool exterior of Jean Valjean. He had a noble, profound acceptance of suffering that quenched the boiling of his burns, of which many littered his bared arms, hands and chest. Again and again, Thernadier paced back and forth, waving the cooling poker. He seemed to be despairing of how to salvage his assault, how to overcome the unrepenting disinterest of his victim. 

Javert stepped in, gun raised. Thernadier saw him immediately and froze. It seemed the situation had revealed itself to him as a joke for he laughed hysterically for a second and then his face clouded over into a look of reptilian coolness. There was no attempt this time at making any appearance of humanity. The wolf had eaten away his human skin. In that room, two wolves looked at each other along the barrel of a gun.  

“Monsieur Inspector,” Thernadier said, “welcome.” He dipped into a squat bow, holding out his long shirt as if he were a lady at a ball holding out her dress, “I see you have met my compatriots already,”

“Yes,” Javert said,

“And I assume they will not be joining us for a late supper?”

“No.”

“And have you met my lady wife and daughters? Beautiful girls they are: Eponette and Anema. Beautiful girls. This gentleman-”

“I don’t care,” Javert said. 

Thernadier’s expression did not slip. It was the expression of a predator waiting for its prey to bare its vulnerable stomach. His eyes shifted from side to side.

“This gentleman is a kidnapper-”

“I don’t care,” Javert said, beginning to advance. 

“You’ve come to arrest me,” Thernadier said, anger finally teasing into his voice, “by God this is a cruel world-”

He was cut off by a cry, the scream of a desperate little girl, as Azelma burst into the room. Javert turned to her, his face livid, his jaw clenched. Thernadier lashed out his long arms to drag her in front of him. As he drew her to him, as if to embrace her (for that’s what she thought he did) Javert fired. He struck Thernadier in the shoulder and knocked him down. Thernadier dragged Azelma down with him in an iron grip. As they fell, Montparnasse revealed himself at the top of the stairs and fired. Javert was struck and he grunted, pulled the trigger once more and toppled backwards. 

Montparnasse cursed, back pressed against the wall, concealed from Javert’s view. He had come to the top of the stairs during the conversation and had remained concealed, hoping to garner information. Chiefly, whether the Inspector was alone. It seemed he was. The gunfire had attracted no rush of policemen. This was good. Javert’s shot had missed him; that was also good. He had taken a moment to press himself all over to be sure, although he could see the bullet hole in the opposite wall. One couldn’t be too careful with one’s health.  

“Monsieur Inspector!” Montparnasse called out, “Oh, Inspector!”

Javert grunted but said nothing.

“This is a very dour situation we find ourselves in. A gentleman comes to a man’s home for supper and he finds himself being shot at! What are the middle classes coming to?”

He paused. Silence.

“Inspector?” He darted his head around the wall. Javert was gone. In his place was a slight trail of blood leading back out towards the garden. The old man was still slumped in the chair. Montparnasse sneered. He burst down the stairs-

“Help me up!” Thernadier cried, reaching out a hand,

Montparnasse leapt over him on his way to the door. The door was open. He ran into the doorway and it slammed closed on him, smashing his nose into his face. He gagged on the wave of his own blood, staggering back to the sound of Thernadier’s vile laughter. The door opened and Javert leapt through, throwing himself on Montparnasse and knocking him from his feet. They wrestled, Montparnasse bit Javert’s hand and drew blood, he kicked Javert in the knee and when that was not enough and, after Javert had kneed Montparnasse in the gut, Montparnasse elbowed his forearm. Javert yowled, tumbling to his side on the floor, clutching at his arm. The effete little crook saw this opportunity for what it was and fled out the front door. 

Thernadier meanwhile was struggling beneath his daughter who had successfully pinned him on the ground, crushing him in her arms and weeping on his chest. He finally threw her off and darted towards the door. His foot caught on Javert’s outstretched leg and he cursed as he fell, slamming his two front teeth out on the wood floor. Javert grinned wickedly but before he could sit up and lay his prison-bar fingers on the man, Azelma was flinging herself on him and beating him over the back and head in defence of her father. Her loyalty was paid back by her father fleeing, leaving her behind. When she realised he had gone, she left Javert and ran out of the door and collapsed on the dirt path screaming and crying and beating the ground with her hands. Eponine came running up the path, followed by Cosette, and they both dropped to their knees by their sister and embraced her. 

Inside, Javert dragged himself up onto his knees and shuffled across the floor to Valjean’s feed,

“Jean,” he grunted, “Jean,”

He coughed. There was blood soaking through Javert’s jacket and vest. Jean was slumped over, dark blood staining his halo of white hair. His face was white as the leaves of the Bible he loved to so pore over. Javert kneeled at his feet and raised his hand in a begging gesture,

“Monsieur,” he groaned, pawing at Valjean’s thigh, “Monsieur,”

He shuffled forward again and pressed his face into Jean’s thigh. Jean’s head turned slightly and he croaked in acknowledgement. 

“Jean,” Javert groaned, lifting himself up and leaning his damaged arm on Valjean’s thigh, “Jean, speak to me. Are you alright?”

Valjean groaned. Javert cupped his cheek and turned his face toward him,

“Jean,” he said, “Jean, tell me you know that I love you.”

“I love you,” Jean murmured,

“No, no, tell me you know that I love you.”

“I love you,” he slurred,

“Tell me you know that I love you- please!”

Cosette grabbed at her father, drawing his head into her arms and to her chest. She was weeping,

“Papa! Papa!”

Eponine too rushed in, followed by her little sister and they gathered around Valjean until he looked the image of a saint, grasped in the guiding hands of the angels. 

Javert woke up on the floor, alone. The chair was empty. There was a puddle of blood around him. He heard footsteps, his vision blurred. He passed into darkness again. He thought: If Valjean is dead, I pray I see him one more time before I am taken to Hell.  

 

Javert woke groggy and in intense pain. His head was lifted from the floor and a bottle was put to his lips. He drank deeply; it was alcohol. He swallowed it down without question, embracing the burn in his throat over the intense pain of what he realised now was a doctor digging in the wound on his shoulder. The man feeding him the alcohol was a police officer, some young man with sandy hair and a wide-eyed look of fear or disbelief,

“Give me a belt to chew on,” Javert growled and the young man stood up and undid his belt. Javert opened his mouth for it and bit down hard as the doctor said,

“I’ve pulled out two pieces of fabric from the wound but there might be more. Keep that in mind and take yourself to a hospital if you get a fever. I’m taking the bullet out now; stay still.”

Javert nodded and squeezed his eyes closed. He released a long low whine of pain as the forceps dug the bullet out of his wound,

“There, there,” the doctor said, dropping it with a clang into a jar, “You can keep that. Give me the bottle.”

The young officer handed the doctor the bottle and he poured it over a cloth and rubbed Javert’s open wound with it roughly to clear the worst of the blood,

“There,” he said, "now I’ll sew you up. Stay still for me.”

Javert nodded again, breathing heavily through his nose. He closed his eyes and tried to picture Valjean’s face, flush and happy, in his mind. He focussed on that, on the way the sun haloed the bronze hair around his head, on the way it lightened the long dark eyelashes around his gentle eyes. 

 Each tug of the thread on his wound was a burning agony. He forced his teeth to unclench and took his belt out of his mouth to growl,

“More alcohol.”

The officer handed him back the bottle and he finished it off. The doctor tutted,

“I’ll need another one. Dig through a cupboard for me.”

The officer nodded and ran off.

“What happened to the old man who was here? Who they tortured?” Javert growled,

“Hospital,” the doctor said, frowning in concentration at Javert’s wound,

“Which hospital? Did they know he was rich? Give him a private room? He shouldn’t be around contagious diseases-”

“I don’t know,” the doctor said, “let me concentrate.”

Javert breathed out heavily and put the belt back in his mouth.

“There,” the doctor said, “all sewn up. Get up for me.”

Javert attempted to stand, stumbled, put his weight on his left arm and yowled,

“What now?” the doctor said impatiently,

“My arm…” Javert groaned. 

“Hmm,” the doctor replied. He took out a knife and cut off the rest of Javert’s uniform and one of his two shirts. Javert would have to find the money to replace it all, he couldn’t think of that now. When the doctor had him stripped he grabbed Javert’s bicep roughly, felt it, and then moved down to clamp his hands on his forearm twisting. Javert howled again, yanking his arm from the doctor’s grip,

“Bad fracture,” the doctor said, “your bone was moving. I’ll set it for you. The bullet wound in your left shoulder and a broken forearm on your left side means you’ll have little use of your arm. I see you have a wound already, an old one. You took time to repair use of that arm before?”

“Yes,” Javert hissed,

“Hmm, you’ll have to do so again. It might not work so well this time. You’re old, plus you’ll have twice the scar tissue and damage.”

“Thank you,” Javert growled.

The doctor motioned for a chair and Javert staggered and sat as the doctor took out the plaster, and the sticks and material wrap, and began to prepare Javert’s arm. Javert was relieved when the young officer returned with more alcohol,

“Ah-ah-ah,” the doctor tutted, stopping what he was doing to use the alcohol first to wash the last of the blood from Javert’s wound. Then he handed it to Javert and Javert downed it, coughing and spluttering.  

“What happened to the man they tortured?” Javert demanded, 

“Um, he was taken to hospital,” the young officer replied,

“I know that!” Javert growled, “I want to know if he’s alive! And where! And where are the daughters?”

“Uh, I don’t know sir-”

“And you don’t need to know,” Gisquet said as he entered, bushy moustache bristling. 

He stood with his hands on his hips, leg set, “You have made yourself a burden to me Inspector Javert, you must think that the prefecture is a joke.”

“No-” Javert rasped, 

“You killed two men,” Gisquet said, “do you have any idea of how much trouble you’ve caused me? How much damage you’ve done to the Paris Prefecture’s reputation? It took Chabouillet himself coming to me to ask for me to forgive you after you whacked that gamin too hard, now you’ve messed me around again.”

“I didn’t-” Javert began,

“You’re on extended leave until I decide what to do with you. Think of yourself as unofficially fired. I don’t care about your injuries; don’t bother to replace your uniform.”

“I only killed Gueulemer, he killed Babet by accident.”

“Shut up. Don’t ever say that to me again, don’t ever say that to anyone. If you don’t go to prison, it will be because God himself has moved Heaven and Earth for you.”

“I deserve prison.”

“Shut him up,” Gisquet said, motioning to the doctor, “give him something to shut him up.”

He turned to leave and Javert called,

“Please… what hospital?”

“Hôtel-Dieu,” Gisquet said angrily, “and never ask me for anything ever again!” and then he left.

Javert staggered up from the chair,

“Your arm is still setting,” the doctor said angrily,

“It can set in the carriage,”

Javert was a stubborn man. His mind was black and dark, filled with not thoughts but things too dense to be thoughts. He flagged down a carriage and got in, arm against his chest, and commanded the driver to take him to the hospital. 

When he arrived, he asked for Monsieur Fauchelevent and trudged, heavy-footed, up the stairs. Valjean had indeed been given a private room. When Javert arrived at the corridor outside the private room he found the girls, Cosette and Eponine, embracing and rubbing their red eyes. They stopped when he appeared and stared at him. He must look like the devil for they began to weep again at the sight of him. They moved to him and wrapped their arms around him and he stood and let them hold him although he could not bring himself to respond. After a moment they sensed his reluctance and drew back, sniffling,

“Azelma is inside with Papa, she cannot bring herself to let him go. Oh, Monsieur Javert,” Cosette said, “we both thought you were dead.”

“No,” Javert said, “not yet. Your father…?”

“Alive,” they both said, sagging with relief, “thank God! But he is in a deep sleep. The doctor said that his brain was bruised or it was bleeding. They struck him very hard and he was very confused and tired. The medicine is to keep him deep asleep so he might heal.”

“Where is Marius?” Javert said, “why are you not attended by an adult?”

“He’s getting us food,” Eponine said, “none of us have eaten, none of us have wanted to eat but he said we should: for the shock.”

Javert grunted and nodded. He had no appetite himself.

“He’s asleep then?”

“Yes.”

“He will live?”

“Yes.”

Javert paused for a second. He shook all over. He said,

“Might I see him?”

The girls looked at him wide-eyed,

“Of course,” they said.

He swallowed heavily and then he stepped up to the door with the heavy tread of a man going to the noose. He reached out his hand for the handle and it trembled. He clenched his fingers into a fist to strengthen himself, then he reached out and opened the door. It opened. He stepped forward and looked in. Azelma was asleep on the bed, her head on Valjean’s broad chest. Valjean was as pale as the bed sheet he lay on, his head was bandaged, his lips and eyes were bruised. His cheeks were sunken in, his hair was lank and flat. Javert stepped back and closed the door. He nodded, swallowed and then said,

“Thank you.”

Then he turned and began to go down the stairs.

“Wait!” Eponine called, “you will need to find us! We won’t go back to Rue Plumet tonight, we’ll be at No. 7 Rue de l'Homme-Armé.”

Javert nodded.

He did not take a carriage but instead went on foot to the Pont Notre Dame. He trod slowly down the steps to stand by the river, hands on the wall, eyes cast down in the water. He saw not only the dark roiling water, curling and foaming. He saw in that water the bloodless faces of Gueulemer, and Babet rising to the surface and bobbing in the blackness. Their mouths opened, they called out his guilt, and then sank down into the depths. He grew sick and wiped his brow with the back of his hand and the thick dark hair on the back of his palm came away sticky with sweat. He dared to look down again, this time it was Valjean’s face that loomed at him. He heaved into the water but only liquid came up: the alcohol he had consumed earlier. He shook all over as if captured by a terrible chill. Worst of all, a part of him wished that he saw Thernadier and Montparnasse’s faces there in the water. That then he could die peacefully knowing that, although he be doomed to Hell, Valjean would be ultimately safe.

He longed for death so powerfully in that moment. This was not the first time that he had grappled with this deep darkness in his soul but it was the first time that he was willing to acknowledge that it was not a temporality but a fundamental part of himself that showed itself to him during the deepest darkest times of his life. He was not a strong man; he was a man who wore the illusion of strength. He did not feel like a man at all. In fact, when he looked into that water, he saw a black-faced wolf snarling and drooling blood. He was a devil, he was accursed in the eyes of God. He would be a bloody stain on the life of Jean Valjean if he lived…

He thought on Valjean again and that saintly face appeared in the water once more, pale as if it were the deathly countenance of a ghost. A horror passed over him as he reeled back for a moment struck by the thought that perhaps Valjean had died in the hospital bed as he lamented. He ran back up the stairs, unknowingly saved from death by Jean Valjean even though the man slept, and he waved down a carriage returning to the hospital.

He ran up the stairs this time and found himself shaking and sweating, ashen-faced, outside of the hospital door. This time Marius was there with sandwiches and pastries wrapped in greased paper, and the girls were attempting to encourage Azelma to eat something. They all looked at him as he appeared. Marius looked exhausted, as if he had aged ten years. The girls wept again at the sight of Javert except for Azelma, she looked caught in the same expression as Javert himself: she too stared with dead black eyes, emotionless. She hardly seemed to acknowledge him before she looked back down at the baguette in her hands as if she did not know what it was. Cosette rose, touched Eponine’s arm apologetically and went to Javert. She embraced him and then looked up at him. He looked down at her. Her eyes were red and puffy from crying.

“Thank you for coming back, Monsieur,” she said very quietly. Javert felt sick. A horrible feeling came over him that if something were to happen to Valjean that he must live and care for these children, burdened by the guilt that in the moment he had chosen Valjean over them and, worse, by the knowledge that he would make the same decision again. He was an evil man.

“I will come and stay with you at No. 7 Rue de l'Homme-Armé. I am on leave from work. I will need to collect Gavroche and explain to him the matter of his parents. I will need to be his new guardian.”

Cosette nodded and then she pressed her face into his ribs.

“Thank you,” she whispered.

Javert swallowed a mouthful of sick,

“It’s fine.”

“Are you hungry, Monsieur,” Marius murmured,

“No,” Javert said,

“You were shot,” Eponine said, “and your arm is injured, you should eat or you will get sick and there will be no one to look after us.”

Javert squeezed his eyes closed,

“Yes,” he said. He moved forward and leaned back against the wall heavily, accepting a baguette from Marius and eating it mechanically, one-handed. 

They all remained like that, in limbo, eating without conversation or pleasure. The door to Valjean’s room remained closed except when someone would be grasped by the sudden urge to gaze upon his sleeping form and then they would throw it open in a panic and the group would look in, breath held in expectation, see that he was sleeping and leave him in peace. After some hours a nun came and she dipped her head to them in respect, went in and prayed over Valjean before treating him with more medication. She prayed for an hour and then crossed herself and took her leave as silently as she had come. A young boy jogged up the stairs and said,

“Inspector Javert?”

Javert grunted and held out his hand. The boy gave him the letter. Javert opened it and read it. It said that Thernadier had been arrested before he could go to ground but there was no sign of Montparnasse. Javert passed his hand over his face and wiped his tacky brow. He folded the letter and placed it in his inside pocket,

“Monsieur and Madame Thernadier are in police custody.”

At this Azelma acknowledged him, her eyes widened and she burst again into hysterical crying. Javert grew suddenly angry, his hands clenched into fists, he shook with rage. Eponine grabbed her sister and began to rock her in her arms, murmuring gently to her. Cosette looked sadly at her sisters and then turned to Javert, 

“Monsieur, will you take us home?” 

Javert’s fists loosened, he nodded. Eponine lifted her sister to stand and she and Azelma followed him staggeringly down the stairs. Cosette stayed back a moment to speak quietly with Marius, a tender hand on his arm and a soft look of appreciation on her face. He walked her down the stairs and, with a last longing look, he went his separate way.

Javert took them by carriage to the long unused flat. They went up together in silence and Javert lit the candles while Eponine and Cosette took the sheets from the furniture and began to sweep away the dust. Eponine took the brush and gave it to Azelma and encouraged her to mechanically sweep as she went to wipe down the surfaces. Cosette went into the kitchen, washed the teapot and the cups and began to make tea. Javert stood in living-room and stared at nothing. 

“I should find Gavroche,” he said. Eponine looked nervous and Cosette looked quickly at her sisters.

“I- I’ll tell them who he is,” Eponine said and Javert nodded. He turned and went out the door.

Finding the boy was easy; he was at the Cafe Musain. Javert went in and his sombre and severe appearance kept the boys from commenting. He went to Gavroche and sat beside him and spoke in low tones to him that his mother and father had been arrested. 

“And what happened to you?” Gavroche said conspiratorially,

“I was shot.”

Gavroche snorted and said with childish naivety,

“That wouldn’t happen to me, I would never get myself shot.”

Javert’s grip on his arm clenched, his eyes bulged, he bared his teeth,

“You must never! You must never get yourself in the way of a gun! You must never lay your hand on a gun!”

Gavroche stared at him wide eyed. The room was tense. The boys watched them in a silence that trembled with repressed violence,

“Alright,” Gavroche said. Javert exhaled, slumping over, his hand loosening, “No need to be dramatic,” Gavroche grumbled.

“Come with me and meet your sisters,” Javert said, exhausted, “and eat some dinner.”

“Alright,” Gavroche said again.

They got up, Gavroche’s little hand in Javert’s big one, and they left together.

There were few places open and Javert had to stick his foot in the closing door and act in a rather threatening manner to get the butcher to sell him a large quantity of cold ham and chicken. They went on again to the flat and trudged up the stairs. Javert knocked and Cosette let them in, gazing with wonder at Gavroche who sniffed a glob of snot up his nose and then wiped it on the back of his hand.

“Hello,” she said, “I am your sister Cosette,” she gave him a little curtsy,

“I’m Gavroche,” he said, taking off his cap out of politeness. 

Eponine stepped in from the bedroom and said,

“Hello rat,”

“You!” Gavroche said, “you uppity bird! You're my sister, are you?”

“Yes.”

“Bad luck that.”

He looked about the flat and said,

“You’re a fancy lot, aren't you?”

“Get your sister,” Javert said, “I got us cold meats.”

Cosette nodded and went into the kitchen to wash and dry some plates and cutlery. Javert walked Gavroche to the table and helped him up on the chair. Eponine went and woke up Azelma who came out wiping her eyes. She looked at Gavroche and pouted,

“You’re my brother,” she said,

“Yep,” Gavroche said, “you look posh.”

“You look poor,” Azelma said,

“We’re opposites,” Gavroche said, “my clothes are ugly and my face is pretty. You know what that means.”

She scowled at him,

“You stink! I can smell you from here.”

“You stink,” Gavroche said, sticking out his tongue. Azelma put her hands on her hips and stuck out her tongue. 

“Enough,” Javert said, sit and eat,

“He’s going to put me off my food!”

“Don’t eat then!” Javert snapped. She paled and went to the table and sat. Cosette and Eponine brought out the cold meats on a serving dish and set the table and the strange family ate in a sombre silence.

“Everyone’s tired,” Eponine said when the washing up was done, “we should all go to bed.” 

Azelma trembled, she went to her sister and whispered in her ear, 

“I don’t want to sleep alone.”

Cosette embraced her and Eponine squeezed her hand,

“We will all share a bed,” she said.

“I’ll leave then,” said Gavroche, tugging up his trousers,

“No,” Javert said, grasping his wrist, “sleep here. The girls are sharing a bed, that means there is a child’s bed free.”

Gavroche frowned at him,

“You sure? I ain’t your kid by law yet.”

“Doesn’t matter,” Javert grumbled, “just sleep in a comfortable bed. You cannot go home, your parents address is abandoned.”

Gavroche’s face screwed up in a strange expression, as if he had only just realised when it meant that his parents were going to prison,

“Alright,” he said quietly.

The girls went into their father’s bedroom and Javert took Gavroche to the other bedroom where there were two children’s beds. Gavroche kicked off his shoes and climbed in, wriggling around as if he were uncomfortable to be in a bed so comfortable. Javert was genuinely uncomfortable for his long legs stuck out right over the end of the bed and into midair. He dragged the blanket over himself loosely and fell into a deep, dark sleep disturbed only by the running of angry black water.

 

Several weeks passed in this sombre way. Each day they woke, made the little flat more presentable, bought and ate food without enjoyment, and spent every other moment at the bedside of Jean Valjean. All except Javert who had to spend a couple of days at the prefecture completing paperwork and in attendance of unpleasant meetings. The most serious of all being his unexpected meeting with Chabouillet. 

He met the man in Gisquet’s office, starting at the sight of his patron who had aged in his retirement: long ginger moustache drooping and crow’s feet beside his eyes. 

“Javert,” he said very seriously, “you have disappointed me.”

Javert lowered his eyes, lips pursed.

“I feel,” Chabouillet continued, “that I have played the role of a father to you in your life,”

He seemed to pause waiting for Javert to reply. Javert really did not know what to say so he said what he thought his patron wanted him to say,

“Yes, Monsieur.”

“Then I feel that you owe me some of the loyalty that a son owes his father. You have brought me tremendous shame with your actions, I risked much of my reputation lifting you up as I did. I have only one thing to ask of you, Javert. You will keep silent about what has happened at that house.”

“Monsieur-”

“No. No more. Listen. Enough. I know you are stubborn and strict but the time for that is at an end. Do me one last favour and do not damage my reputation any further by dragging my name through the mud.”

Javert bowed his head, swallowing heavily. He nodded but could not bring him to speak.

“Your fate is in Gisquet’s hands now. He will keep an eye on public reaction and judge whether you still have a position here. You know he is angriest most of all at your disrespect of regulation, of your disrespect of him in your choosing to act alone putting lives in danger.”

“Yes, Monsieur.”

“Behave yourself. Goodbye Javert.”

He approached, placed a hand briefly on Javert’s shoulder, and left. Javert stood alone for a moment and left also; there was no further place for him in that room.

A week later, Jean Valjean was deemed healed enough to be slowly woken from his drug-induced slumber. He awoke to a halo of his children’s anxious faces. He smiled weakly and at that they embraced him sobbing on his chest and shoulders. Javert stood outside with the doctor. Gavroche was holding his hand, swinging it back and forth aggressively and shuffling his feet. 

“You understand,” the doctor said, “that he has had a serious brain injury. He will wake up but he may not be the same man he was before. He has been asleep for a long time, he will also require a wheelchair and to begin moving slowly towards walking again.”

Javert nodded seriously, 

“Yes, of course.”

“Patients with these sorts of injuries often struggle with loss of memory and bouts of anger.”

“Yes,” Javert said,

“He has a home where he can sleep downstairs? He will not be safe walking up and down stairs until he is strong again.”

Javert pursed his lips, hand twitching at his side, 

“Yes, yes, we can move him downstairs.”

“Good,” the doctor said, “I will have the nurse give you some medicine for him in case he experiences pain or discomfort.”

“Of course.”

The doctor left and Javert turned to go in but found himself held back. Gavroche looked up at him, digging the toe of his shoe into the floor,

“What is it?” Javert said. Gavroche crooked his finger at him and Javert leant down so he could whisper in his ear,

“He doesn’t know me,”

Javert frowned at him,

“I know that,” Javert answered, “but he would like to meet you.”

Gavroche pouted, rocking Javert’s hand,

“You sure?”

“Yes, I’m sure,” Javert said, squeezing his hand.

Gavroche nodded and Javert led him into the room. Jean was talking quietly and exhaustingly with his daughters. He caught sight of Javert and a strange look passed over his face and then he looked down and caught sight of Gavroche and he smiled anxiously,

“Hello young man,” he said. Gavroche pulled a face,

“Hello,” he said.

“Are you Gavroche?”

“Yeah.”

“It’s a pleasure to meet you. I am Ultime Fauchelevent.”

“Alright.”

Javert coughed in his throat,

“The… doctor has said that we will all have to return to Rue Plumet. He said you will need to use a wheelchair so we will need to arrange a bedroom for you downstairs.”

Valjean blanched. He swallowed heavily and passed his hand over his brow, trembling,

“Papa is tired now,” Cosette said, “why don’t Azelma and Eponine stay with him and you and I can return to Rue Plumet and prepare it for Papa?”

Eponine went to argue but Cosette motioned down to Azelma, who was pressed into her Papa’s chest, and Eponine nodded seriously. 

“Yes,” Javert said, and Cosette rose and put on her hat. She kissed her father on the cheek and said,

“Rest now, Papa. You will be well looked after when you come home.”

He smiled weakly; eyes grateful.

Cosette, Javert and Gavroche went downstairs and to Rue Plumet. Cosette went in proudly and confidently, retrieved some money and returned. She said,

“We will move Papa into the library downstairs. It is his favourite place in the house beside the garden and it will make him comfortable to be surrounded by his books. Let’s go and purchase him a bed. He will want something cheap and secondhand, you know him.”

“Yes,” Javert said.

Cosette purchased a single bed from a second-hand store and a new mattress to go on it. Then they went to the market and purchased a variety of meats, fresh vegetables, and dry goods, bread, pastries, wine and cordials. Then they purchased sweets, fresh flowers and some perfumed candles. Cosette had booked for some men to bring the bed and, when they returned home, they did not have to wait long for the men to arrive and, grumbling, carry the bed up the path, into the house and then into the library. They moved out the writing desk and chair and fitted the bed in for them. Gavroche monitored them seriously, in case of theft, and Cosette tipped them generously and then asked Gavroche to help her bring down some bed clothes because there was a lot to bring and he was very strong. Meanwhile, Javert chopped up vegetables and cold meats for lunch. When the bed was made, he poured out Gavroche and Cosette some lemon cordial and served them a sandwich each. They sat at the table in the kitchen and solidly avoided looking into the living room where there still sat two large blood stains on the floor.

“We need a large rug,” Cosette said when she had done the washing up. 

They went out and bought a large second-hand rug which Javert carried home (with Gavroche’s help) and they laid it out over the blood stain. When that was done, the oppressive atmosphere of the room was negligibly improved.

“Well,” Gavroche said, dusting his hands, “that’s a day’s good hard work.”

“What we should do next,” Cosette said, hands on her hips, “is take you for a haircut and some new clothes.”

Gavroche rolled his eyes, 

“Really?”

“Yes. And some new shoes.”

At this he smiled shyly,

“Well alright then.”

Out they went again. 

Gavroche complained and wriggled when his hair was washed and chopped short and his face was scrubbed clean. Then he was taken to a shop where Cosette purchased him two new pairs of shoes, one for school and one for play, and then to a clothing shop where she purchased him five new outfits in full. This was twice as many as Javert had owned in his life. By the end of it Gavroche was quite happy for she also took him to the toy shop and bought him a bat and ball and a bicycle which Javert agreed to teach him to ride in the garden. He was red-faced and beaming all the way home rolling his bicycle along beside him. Javert dropped Cosette and Gavroche off at Rue Plumet and, at Cosette’s insistence, he returned to the hospital. 

He trudged up the stairs and found Eponine and Azelma still happily chatting with their father. He coughed in his throat,

“Monsieur,” he said. Valjean looked up at him, seeming surprised,

“Javert,” he murmured,

“The house is prepared for you. I’ve come to take you home.”

Valjean seemed to shiver,

“Yes, thank you,” he said, not sounding grateful.

An orderly helped Javert move into his wheelchair only to then have to help him, one on each arm, down the stairs while the girls carried the wheelchair behind them. It was frustrating having to traverse so many stairs, to see how pale Jean went, how breathless he became, and how a sweat beaded on his brow.
The carriage journey home was a brief period of relief for Valjean who napped all the way home. Javert helped him down and then into the wheelchair, paid and then wheeled him up the path and into the house. They stopped in the doorway, staring at the new rug. 

“I’ll take you into the garden,” Javert said gruffly and he wheeled him outside and into the sun. Drew the little chair away from the table and wheeled Jean to it. Then he went inside. 

Gavroche ran out with his ball,

“Hello mister,” he said. Jean smiled weakly,

“Hello Gavroche,”

Gavroche held up his ball,

“I got a ball,”

“That’s very nice.”

“Your daughter bought it. I ain’t broke nothing with it yet, I promise.”

Jean shrugged,

“Break anything you want. But keep in mind: if you break any of the plants, you can’t eat the fruits they grow.”

“Alright,” Gavroche said and then he went about kicking the ball around the garden.

Cosette came out with tea on a tray. Azelma brought out sandwiches and Eponine brought out a vase of flowers. Javert came out with chairs and set them around for the girls to sit with their father, then he turned to go in. Eponine grabbed his wrist,

“Bring out a chair for you,”

He shook his head,

“You need time with your father.”

Cosette shook her head even more vigorously,

“No, Monsieur, you should stay. You have helped up a lot and we will need your help more these next few months.”

She turned to her father,

“Papa,” she said, “tell Monsieur Javert he and Gavroche should stay with us. He will want to care for you while you are unwell and Gavroche enjoys the garden. Besides, he is our brother now and we need time to get used to each other.”

 Valjean was pale, he glanced up at Javert but could not meet his eye. He looked to Azelma and said,

“Surely Azelma will want to get used to her new little brother from a distance-”

“No,” Azelma said, voice uncharacteristically quiet, “it’s alright.”

Valjean opened his mouth, closed it, and said,

“Yes, I suppose it’s logical.”

Both Cosette and Eponine looked strangely at him and then the Javert but only nodded in approval and said between themselves,

“It’s best Monsieur Javert takes Papa’s old bed.”

“Yes, I’ll make it for him this evening.”

“Papa,” Cosette said, touching his hand, “we have set you up a bedroom in the library so you don’t have to go upstairs.”

“Thank you, my dears,” Jean said, again smiling although it only just reached his eyes, “I’m sorry,” he said, “but I am very tired, could we sit and just drink and eat quietly?”

“Of course, Papa!”

They did just that. Javert ate very little, he had no appetite. After a while, he got up and went to bring Gavroche a sandwich and then throw the ball for him.

The afternoon passed like until Javert could bring up the excuse to return home to collect his clothes and meager belongings. He took his time and returned when it was getting dark.   

The family had already eaten dinner and Javert politely refused the plate kept in the oven for him on the excuse he had eaten; he hadn’t. Gavroche and Azelma were sitting on the new rug playing snakes and ladders; loudly accusing each other of cheating and moving each other’s pieces. Valjean watched them with a nervous fondness. Javert took himself to the kitchen and helped the girls wash up and make cocoa. 

Eventually, time passed and Javert no longer had to find any excuses to avoid Jean because everyone was going to bed. Eponine had made his bed for him and he had put away his clothes in the wardrobe, trembling when he stepped back and looked to see his clothes and Valjean’s pressed together side by side. He went downstairs and collected Gavroche. He had to teach the boy to clean his teeth and then realised that he was filthy dirty. He went downstairs and ran a bath and taught him how to scrub himself with soap. He was still dirty after one bathtub of water but he was a little better. Javert brushed his hair for him and folded back the bed covers while he climbed into his pajamas, and then tucked him into bed. Gavroche scrubbed at his eyes with the back of his hand as he watched Javert put out the candles and walk to the door,

“Javert,” he said, 

“Yes?”

“If you were my dad, would this always be my room?”

Javert pursed his lips, jaw flexing, he said,

“Why do you ask?”

“Well, it ain’t that bad living in a rich geezer’s house after all.”

“No, it’s not,” Javert said, “goodnight.”

“G’night.”

The girls had taken themselves to bed and Javert stood on the landing, hands trembling. He needed to go downstairs and check the doors and windows. The broken ones had been repaired but he was nervous the old habit of leaving the kitchen window on the latch had remained. He went downstairs on socked feet and began to pace the house, checking each window and door was locked. He froze when he saw a figure in the hallway,

“Javert?” Jean said,

“Yes.”

“What are you doing?”

“Nothing. Checking the perimeter. Why aren’t you abed?”

“I… I wanted to check everything.”

Javert grunted,

“Well, everything is ok. You need your rest. Do you need help getting into bed?”

“No-” Jean said quickly, and then, “wait, Javert… I need to speak with you.”

“Let me help you in to bed,” Javert said.

Jean wheeled himself into his room and Javert took his arm and helped him climb into bed. He went to step back, to flee before Valjean could speak with him, but Valjean’s big hand, still iron-strong despite his weakness, grabbed him by the wrist and held him like a manacle. Javert trembled,

“Javert,” Valjean said, voice low and warning, “I need to speak with you. I was conscious, in a way, in my hospital bed for a few weeks. I have been musing and musing on only one thing: how did the Thernadiers come to know my address? I could not think of any way other than this: that when you went and looked for Madame Thernadier on behalf of Eponine that they recognised you and that every day since you have been leading them here little by little.”

Javert shook, brittle as a leaf. 

“Tell me,” Valjean growled,

“No,” Javert whispered, “that is not how it happened.”

Valjean’s grip tightened on his wrist,

“Then tell me.”

Javert tried to jerk his hand away but Valjean held tighter. It would bruise,

“It was me!” Javert cried, voice a hushed, hoarse whisper-shout, “It was me! I told Marius your address, his neighbours were the Thernadiers under a false name and he had the woman bring a letter here to Cosette-”

“To Cosette!” Valjean snarled, his grip tightened and Javert cried out again but now in pain, “My Cosette! My daughters! You have brought pain to this house! Danger! Men to steal my daughters, criminals to hurt them and frighten them, to extort them or even kill them!”

“Jean,” Javert cried, staggering to his knees, “please, Jean, you do not know what I have done. I killed two men, Jean, I killed them for you. I would do it again. I would kill Montparnasse, I would kill Thernadier, please, Jean. God help me! I will burn in Hell for you and I welcome it! I love you!”

Valjean released him and Javert fell back, elbows banging on the floor.

“Get out,” Jean growled,

“Jean,” Javert murmured, “I- I will give you time to think. I will see you tomorrow morning but I promise I will leave you in peace-”

“I said leave, and I meant my home. You will leave me in peace: for good.”

Javert staggered to his feet,

“I can’t do that,” he said.

“You will, or I will throw you out.”

“And Gavroche?”

“He will stay with me.”

“No,” Javert said, sneering, “he will remain with me. If you wish him to stay, I will stay also.”

Valjean’s hands, balled into fists, shook.   

Javert stared at him.

“Your sin is not my burden,” Jean snarled. He clenched his teeth. A painful silence followed before he continued, “do not talk to me.”

Javert dipped his head,

“As you wish, Monsieur.”

He left, pulling the door closed behind him and staggered to the staircase. By the light of the moon, he pulled back his sleeve and found the dark prints of Valjean’s fingers. He leaned against the railing, shaking and then stumbled upstairs to climb into bed where he lay shivering and trembling.  

When morning came Javert found that what weak sleep he had had left him more exhausted. Still, he got up, dressed, forced Gavroche to wash his face and brush his hair, let the boy choose his outfit for the day, and then went downstairs to help Jean out of bed while Eponine and Cosette made breakfast. The sound of delighted screaming filled the house as Azelma chased Gavroche around the garden and in and out of the back door and around the living room and hallway, feet thumping up and down the stairs.
Jean was solemn, jaw clenched and brow furrowed as Javert helped him out of bed and into his clothes in silence. He wheeled himself into the kitchen and smiled warmly as he saw his daughters. They ran to him and embraced him and kissed him on the face. Azelma came running in and kissed her Papa, squeezing him tightly. Gavroche came running in after and slowed down, wringing his hands in his newly creased shirt,

“Alright Mister?” he said and Valjean smiled at him and held out his hand for Gavroche to shake.

“Have breakfast with us,” he said and Gavroche smiled shyly and ran to the table and pulled out a seat. Javert muttered about helping and set out the plates and food for everyone at the table and then said,

“I’ll have mine outside. There are not enough seats.”

“Monsieur!” Cosette cried but Javert turned and went out to the garden to sit outside and eat in the early morning sun. 

He ate in silence and after a while Gavroche ran out with his plate full of toast thick with marmalade and he pulled up a seat beside Javert. Javert glanced at him but said nothing and continued drinking his orange juice and looking out over the garden. Gavroche haphazardly stuffed marmalade into his mouth for some time before he said,

“So, are you the old man’s wife or is he your wife?”

Javert started,

“What?”

“Don’t be silly,” Gavroche said, “nothin’ wrong with it. Which of you is the wife? You’re ugly but he has a big beard so I can’t tell.”

Javert scowled at him,

“It’s-”

“Azelma said you killed people for ‘im.”

“Don’t talk about that,” Javert snarled, “leave it alone.”  

Gavroche looked at him, chewing slowly. 

“Alright,” he murmured and he went back to licking marmalade off his plate. Azelma came running out with Gavroche’s ball and he cried out in protest jumping up and chasing after her while she screamed and ran around the garden.

Javert sighed. What a heaven this would be if only Jean Valjean sat by his side, if only they rested hand in hand. The sunlight soft and warm on the blooming garden, the butterflies dancing over the flowers, the children chasing and squealing with delight. A tear came to his eye and he scrubbed it away, swallowing the lump in his throat. What a heaven this would be. If only-

 

It took several weeks of Valjean being constantly aggravated by Javert’s presence for him to realise that the man wasn’t going to work. Valjean was sitting in the garden, cane in hand, studiously trying to ignore Javert who was grunting as he dug up the root of an old dead berry bush. Jean drew his eyes down from the sunlight playing on the clouds, banged his cane on the floor and said,

“Why aren’t you at work?”

Javert looked up at him, wiping the sweat from his brown with the back of a hairy hand,

“What do you call this?”

“You know what I mean.”

“I’m on leave.”

“I’m out of the wheelchair now, I no longer need you. You can return to work.”

“I’m not on leave by choice.”

Javert turned his face back to his work. Jean frowned,

“What do you mean?”

“I will probably never work in the police force again,” Javert grunted. He rose to his feet and began to try and pry up the root again now he had loosened it with the trowel. No good.

“Javert,” Jean rumbled,

“What do you want me to say?” Javert snarled, “you don’t want to hear about it so don’t ask about it!”

Jean grunted and turned his face away to stare at a tree stubbornly. There was a delightful little bird nesting in a hole in the trunk. Normally this would make him smile. He did not smile now. He exhaled heavily. 

Javert gave up yanking on the root and stood panting, tilted his face up to the sky and scrubbed the back of his neck. 

“You haven’t been sleeping,” he said to Valjean.

“Neither have you,” Jean grumbled,

“I’m used to working nights.”

“I’m a light sleeper.”

“Hmm.”

Javert went back to digging up the root with the shovel, hoping to break up some of the roots. 

“Give up,” Jean said, “it’s too stubborn and the weather is too hot.”

“I’ll get it.”

“You will not.”

“I’ll get it.”

“You’re not goin-”

“For god’s sake!” Javert cried, throwing down the shovel with a loud bang, “I said I would get it!” 

He went inside. 

 

Javert stood in the kitchen, hands propped on the countertop, knees weak. His heart pounded in his chest, he felt sick, he felt dizzy, a thick sweat had gathered on his forehead and around his collar. He poured himself a cool drink and downed it quickly and almost threw it back up. He poured himself another and drank slowly this time and breathed deeply until he hands stopped trembling. 

The tapping of Jean’s cane on the floor set his hands to shaking again. Jean stopped in the doorway,

“Get yourself together,” he said, “you have to be calm in court.”

Javert nodded. He swallowed heavily,

“I don’t think it’s right,” he whispered,

“What’s right?”

“I- I shouldn’t adopt Gavroche. It’s not right. His parents were criminals, he doesn’t need another one for a father.”

“What choice does he have?”

“Better than me,” Javert said, knuckles white on the countertop, “better than a murderer. I think-” he turned to Jean desperately, “all my life I have held myself to the standards I have held others to- merciless, relentless, unforgiving. I deserve what I have given everyone else; I deserve to go to prison. I committed a crime-”

Jean growled, his hand clenching around the head of his cane almost to crush it,

“Don’t you dare,” he snarled, “don’t you dare throw that boy back to the street just to ease your own conscience! What good would prison do?”

“It would be just!”

“It would be a waste!” Jean bellowed, “just like all your justice has been a waste! All your life-long pursuit of punishment in the name of the law! A waste! Worthless!”

Javert slumped back against the countertop, head hanging,

“Your self-castigation is worthless Javert. But what is not worthless? A father for a fatherless boy. By God, I would be that father if I could but like you I have to live with the consequence of my actions. Unlike you, I had no chance to avoid prison. Don’t you dare spit in the face of my suffering.”

Javert said nothing. He only nodded weakly and then went to the front door, took his hat, left his coat and went out. 

He went to the Seine and stared out over the water. The sunlight struck the surface and penetrated no deeper. The beauty of the world around him did the same to Javert; it could not pierce the cold surface that had hardened over his heart. He ached. He was tired. His head hung and it took everything in him to not topple over the wall and into the water. He eased his pain with the reassurance that it would all be over soon and he would be at peace. 

With this lifting his spirits he went to see his lawyer. He had borrowed money from Cosette to pay for legal assistance in adopting Gavroche, and the burden of knowing that he- an adult man- had so little that he had to secretly borrow from a child dragged him lower. He was completing the paperwork required for the court. He signed and read everything in a cold and disinterested state and then discussed the legal arrangement of his will and testament. With this done he was once again buoyed and he went next to collect little Gavroche from school.   

“I have had my solicitor submit the paperwork for your formal adoption today,” he said as he and Gavroche walked down the street hand-in-hand. Gavroche had his little bag in one hand and was swinging Javert’s hand with the other, kicking a stone along the gutter as he walked.

“That’s good,” he said, “will you teach me to ride the bicycle today?”

“Yes, of course. It is good weather for it.”

“Good.”

“How was school?”

“Alright. Boring. Nuns, you know? They’re boring as part of the job.”

“That’s true. Do you know your abc’s?”

“Yeah. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P.”

“And?”

“Q R S P U V”

“T U V,”

“Alright, alright, W X Y Z.”

“Very good. What about your times tables?”

“I can do my twos and threes and ones, but the fours is hard.”

“The fours are just every other number of the twos for the most part.”

“That’s a lot of work,” Gavroche sighed,

“They’re useful to know and will make your maths easier later.”

“Sure.”

“We’ll practice your fours before bed.”

Gavroche sighed heavily,

“Will you buy me a pastry? I’m hungry.”

Javert grumbled,

“Fine.”

 

When they got home Gavroche threw down his bag, kicked off his school shoes at the front door and ran upstairs to change into his play clothes. Javert grumbled something about taking care of your belongings and picked up the bag and shoes, checked the books weren’t damaged, and tucked them away in the appropriate cupboard. By the time Gavroche had come downstairs, Javert had made him some food and a cool drink. Gavroche gulped this down as he was being pestered by Azelma, who had also arrived back from school and who was bothering Gavroche about what a better student she was and how much more her teachers liked her. They ran out into the garden together and immediately began fighting until Gavroche shouted for Javert to hurry up. He went out, caught sight of Jean from the corner of the eye and studiously ignored him. Gavroche had wheeled his new bicycle out of the gardener’s hut and was rolling it up the path,

“Come on!” he shouted, “you promised!”

Javert grumbled but rested his hands on Gavroche’s ribs and held him and the bicycle upright as Gavroche climbed on and nervously and awkwardly began to pedal,

“Relax your knees,” Javert said, “You’re being too stiff.”

Gavroche grumbled, wrinkled his nose and brow in concentration and slowly began to improve his rhythm.  

“Good boy,” Javert said, “well done. Keep going.”

He helped Gavroche stop and turn a wide circle and begin pedalling back towards the house. As Gavroche gained his confidence Javert began to let go. He released him and Gavroche pedalled a couple of feet before Azelma shouted,

“He’s let go!” and in a sudden panic Gavroche tipped over and hit the paving stones. Javert snarled,

“Stupid girl! Look what you did!”

Azelma paled,

“Don’t speak to her in that tone,” Valjean warned. 

Gavroche pushed himself up to sit, peering at his bloodied knee and held in his tears,

“You were supposed to hold onto me,” he said accusingly, face scrunched up. Javert approached him and hoisted him up onto his hip to carry him indoors,

“I was, but a father must let go eventually. It helps you learn you are capable of looking after yourself and being a man.”

Gavroche hid his face in Javert’s shoulder,

“I don’t want to look after myself no more,” he murmured as Javert carried him in to the kitchen and sat him on a chair so he could clean his knee.

Javert wiped it gently with a wet cloth and some soap as the little boy wiped his snotty nose on his sleeve,

“It’s not so bad,” Javert said. He looked up, “You’re a very brave boy. It’ll scab over and you won’t even notice it. We’ll try the bicycle tomorrow but we’ll ride it in the park on the grass. So Azelma can’t shock you.”

“I hate ‘zelma,” Gavroche pouted, 

“I understand. That was very unkind of her.” 

 “‘zelma deserved to be shouted at. She was being nasty.”

“I know,” he patted Gavroche on the shoulder, “but I’m not her father. Why don’t you get your pencils and paper and draw instead?”

Gavroche shrugged, head hanging,

“Sure,” he limped out of the kitchen and up the stairs to get his things.

When Javert came out of the kitchen Jean was standing in the garden doorway. They stared at each other. Jean pursed his lips, hand flexing on his cane,

“I have spoken to Azelma, she will apologise.”

“Yes, good.”

Jean nodded. They continued to stare at each other,

“I’m not her father, I won’t seek to parent her again.”

Jean swallowed,

“Good,” he said. 

Gavroche limped down the stairs, one hand on the banister and one clutching his scrunched-up paper and pencils. He stopped near the bottom of the stairs and looked down at Valjean with a frown,

“I’m sorry for my daughter’s behaviour, Gavroche,” Jean said.

Gavroche shrugged. He turned away from Valjean and thumped down the stairs. He took Javert’s hand and took him towards the front room. Javert did not look back at Jean Valjean as he was led away.

Jean Valjean was once again in prison, but now it was the prison of his own body. He was filled with contempt and disgust at his own weakness. In his life he had been starved, beaten, burned, dehydrated, chained, and broken mentally and emotionally; but never had he been weak. He raged against this new vulnerability, one that made him feel, for the first time, that if he were in danger he could do nothing about it. Every night he lay awake, in his tomb of books, and stared at the ceiling with dry sore eyes. Often, he got up and crept about the house on his cane, searching for unseen and unheard intruders. He trembled at every unexpected sound. He faced the mornings with a brute resilience, a stubborn refusal to let anyone see his growing self-loathing. He was repulsed by Javert’s touches as the man helped him out of bed and to dress himself. That man who had both brought disaster to his door and saved him from it when he had failed; failed to be a protector for his family, failed to save his children from fear and harm when they had needed him most. The presence of that man made him feel ashamed.

He could not show his children this weakness in him, he feared they would become afeared if they knew he was a failure. They needed to think he was strong. He was not a good father if he did not make them feel safe.

He failed in this monumental feat of repression one night when he awoke to the sound of his daughter screaming. Which one he did not know; he did not need to know. He leapt out of bed, or tried to, and collapsed. The room had spun, like the reflection on the water as it drained into the sinkhole, and he grabbed at the bed to ground himself. He grunted as he drew himself up to standing, legs shaking and grasped out blindly for his cane,

“I’m coming!” he bellowed, heart beating a mad tattoo against his ribs. 

He staggered to the door of his room, sick and nauseous and then to the bottom of the stairs. Above him the screaming had gone silent. His heart sunk into his stomach; he shook. He saw in his mind his children: restrained, unconscious, beaten, cowering terrified, assaulted by some devil-intruder while he, weak and useless could barely ascend the stairs. He reached the landing, out of breath, and found the door to Azelma’s room open. A light was lit inside. He staggered to the doorway and froze. The girls were in there, sitting beside their sister; she had her face buried in Javert’s shoulder, her arms clinging to his broad back. Bile rose in Valjean’s throat. Cosette looked up and said,

“It’s ok, Papa. It was only a bad dream.”

Eponine said,

“You should sit down, you look unwell.”

Javert turned his head and caught sight of Valjean in the doorway. He frowned and then turned and said quietly to Azelma,

“There now, we are all here and fine. Even Gavroche poked his tired head out of his door. Your sisters will sleep in your room with you.”

He turned to Valjean as he began to extract himself from her arms and said,

“The girls are right, Jean, you look unwell.”

He rose and walked across the room,

“You should sit down-”

No sooner had he reached the doorway that Jean had struck him across the face. He slumped, banging against a cabinet and catching himself on it. Thankfully, the old man’s illness had left him too weak to knock Javert unconscious outright. The girls gasped and they clung to each other. Jean looked at them pale-faced and wide-eyed. Then he looked down at Javert who was massaging his jaw. His lip was split.

“It’s alright,” Javert rasped, “it was an accident. No harm in it.”

“It wasn’t an accident!” Eponine said, angry,

“Leave it,” Javert growled. He looked to Jean plaintively, “You look unwell, come, don’t try to go back downstairs, sleep in your old room tonight. I will move down to the sofa.”

Jean nodded weakly and allowed himself to be taken by the arm and guided into the room across the hall, head bowed in shame, mute with shock. 

When Javert had taken them both inside he closed the door behind them. Jean could feel his eyes on his face but could not bring his own to meet Javert’s gaze. He could not comprehend what he had done. He dragged his eyes from the floor to stare at his own hand as if it were alien to him. Javert’s large hand closed over it and he followed it up with his eyes. Javert placed Jean’s hand against his jaw,

“Hit me again,” he said roughly.

Jean started; he shook his head in disbelief,

“No,” he whispered, “no.”

“It’s right,” Javert said, “I deserve it. I deserve worse. Do as you require. Someone should punish me.”

Jean trembled, and then like the great shattering and falling of a pillar of marble he collapsed against Javert’s chest, sobbing. Javert’s long arms wrapped around him and held him as his huge, once powerful, body shuddered. 

After a while, he could cry no more. He said quietly,

“I’m tired.”

“I know. Let me help you.”

Javert took his cane and leant it up against the wall and then gently lowered Jean to lay on the bed, lifting the covers over him. He stepped back and Jean’s hand grasped his wrist. Javert hissed. Jean looked at him and then slowly drew back the sleeve of his night shirt. There beneath his fingers were yellowing marks, finger print bruises. His own hand fit them perfectly. He felt sick. He looked up at Javert through sore, red eyes,

“I cannot ask you,” he said, “but please stay.”

Javert bowed his head. His lips drew down into a terrible grimace of pain and then he nodded solemnly, rounded the bed and climbed in beside him, laying above the covers. They lay side by side in the darkness. Shoulder to shoulder.

“I’m sorry,” Jean whispered,

“Don’t be,” Javert murmured back, “I deserve it.”

“You don’t,” Jean replied, “you don’t, by God, it is not my place to judge or punish.”

He trembled, raw throat convulsing with a sob,

“I am so sorry. My god, Javert. Who am I? Who is this man who strikes the one he loves? Jean le Cric, who I once hoped was dead, is alive and well. Oh god, he has lived in me all along. I am a monster.”

“No,” Javert said urgently, rolling onto his side, “Jean no, what happened-”

“Is no excuse.”

“The doctor said-”

“Is no excuse. The day I refuse to take responsibility for my own actions is the day that that wicked man wins. He has lived in my heart looking for opportunity, that black devil, and I have given it to him. God, Javert, I have been a wicked creature punishing you for my own failure.”

“Jean,” Javert whispered, cupping his jaw and drawing him finally to look into his eyes, “no. I am the sinner. The sin is all mine. Your punishment of me is just.” 

 Jean looked at him for a long time, quietly and seriously. 

“Javert,” he said, “you look so tired.”

Javert swallowed heavily,

“It has been hard on all of us.”

Jean rolled onto his side so they faced each other and reached out his own hand, fingers hovering for a moment before finally they built up the courage to touch those new bruises tenderly.

“But it has been hardest for you,” he whispered, “what you told me before I- I didn’t listen. I’m sorry.”

“Don’t be,” Javert whispered,

“I am.”

“Javert,” Jean murmured, “Javert, I have been cruel to you.”

“No,” Javert whispered, “Just. Someone must punish me-”

“Never me,” Jean said, “it should never be me. I would be your lover, not a tool for your punishment.”

Javert’s face contorted into a look of agony and he turned away, pressing his face into the pillow, shuddering. 

“No,” he whispered,

“Javert,”

“No, it’s not right.”

“I have wronged you, I’m sorry, so sorry. I love you still.” 

“No,” Javert whispered, “I don’t deserve it. Please, please, please do not love me. I couldn’t bear it-”

“It is I who needs forgiveness, your forgiveness-”

“I am a murderer-”

“We have all sinned-”

“Not like me,” Javert snarled, “you cannot compare yourself to me.”

He turned his face to Jean, his eyes burning,

“No,” he said, “for the sake of your soul Jean Valjean, I would not burden you with my black heart. I will care for you until you are well again and then I will leave you. I would not stain you and your children’s lives.” 

“Javert,” Jean said, caressing his face, “no. Wherever you go I will find you; it is what God wants. Challenges have come between us but we have overcome; this is God’s will.”

Javert did something more terrifying then than snarling or crying. He smiled. He smiled and shook his head,

“Why do you smile?” Jean whispered, afraid. 

“Jean, you will not follow me. I will kill myself.”

Jean trembled,

“No,” he said,

“It is the best way. My will is written-”

“No,” Jean said, rage building in him. He clasped at Javert’s neck possessively, “No, I won’t allow it.”

Whatever strength Javert had crumbled and he sobbed, turning his face into the pillow once more with shame and pain,

“Please!” he begged, “Please Jean! Do not make this hard for me. I cannot bear it. I cannot bear it. I disgust myself; I despise myself. I could not bear to oppress you with my sin. The man you once loved is gone, he died when he took another’s life. He was not a good man but he was a just and lawful man, that man could not live with himself if he were a murderer so he must be dead. Please, Jean, please do not hold onto him. He cannot live, he cannot carry the burden of his guilt.”

Jean kissed him. Kissed him fiercely and mercilessly. Kissed him to steal his breath and his pain and his thoughts. He rolled on top of him and pinned him against the mattress. For a second Javert allowed it and then he began to push at Jean’s chest. Jean growled and then finally he drew back and they stared into each other’s eyes. Javert gazed at him with a red-eyed pitiable look,

“Javert,” Jean growled, “promise me: no matter how heavy your burden grows do not commit that ultimate sin; do not take your own life.”

“Jean-” Javert whispered,

“No!” Jean snarled, “no Javert! Let me shoulder your burden with you, let me do whatever it takes. I will help you; I will love you. God will forgive you: I believe it. Let me believe it is possible for both of us.”

Javert opened his mouth to speak and Jean kissed him again, pushing him crushingly into the bed. He drew back again, growling,

“Promise me!”

Javert’s bottom lip trembled, he was weak and defeated,

“As you wish.”

“I love you Javert,” Jean growled, “I mean it, although I have not shown it. I have not treated you as you deserve. Let me help you.”

He pressed a kiss to Javert’s forehead, gentle and loving,

“Please,” he whispered, “God will forgive you. I forgive you. Everything.”

Javert said nothing. After a moment, Jean rolled onto his back and tugged at Javert to draw him so that he lay his head on Jean’s chest. His fingers stroked through Javert’s coarse dark hair gently, 

“It will be alright,” Jean whispered, “God will forgive you. I love you. God will forgive you.”

Javert said nothing.

“God will forgive you,” Jean said again, eyes gazing into the darkness of the high ceiling, “God will forgive us.”

 

The sun was shining on the park, the grass swayed gently in a light breeze, a musical cacophony of quacks filled the air; this was life for the privileged in Paris. Gavroche was pedalling his bicycle on the green giggling with pride. He would ride a few feet, fall and then jump up and climb back on to pedal a few more feet. Even Azelma’s girlish giggles at his falls didn’t upset him, even when she ran and snatched his hat from his head he only laughed and pedalled after her on his bicycle. Eponine and Cosette were walking arm-in-arm talking quietly between themselves. Every now and again Eponine would turn and cast a serious look at her father and Cosette would follow it with a worried smile and wave. Javert and Valjean brought up the rear of this sunshine troupe, arm in arm, walking slowly. Jean turned his face up to the sun and to the children, but more often than not his face was turned to Javert; looking at him with a gaze of nervous anxiety and sadness. Every and now again Javert would look down at him with a look of stern concentration,

“And the nun said that they have a trip where they take the children out to the countryside and have them learn to swim and boat. Under supervision of course,” Javert said, serious gaze set on the children as they played, “madness,” he said, “to think he has come from the street to learning to sail a boat on a lake.”

Valjean chuckled,

“Indeed. Money is worthless in itself, but the experiences and the education it can purchase…well.”

Javert frowned,

“Thank you for paying for it,” he grumbled,

“I would do nothing else with my money. I hardly have a taste for the finer things in life,” Jean chuckled. He squeezed Javert’s arm, “present company excluded.”

Javert scoffed,

“I could hardly be called fine,” he grumbled, “I don’t think that the prison system turns out delicate wares.”

“You are very fine to me,” Jean said, squeezing Javert’s arm again.

“We will sit on this next bench,” Javert said, “Slow down Gavroche!” he called, “there is a steep hill coming up, maintain control!”

Gavroche stopped at the top of the hill, looked back and then with a wave of his hat he pushed himself down it, squealing with delight. Azelma screamed and ran down after him, holding her hat on her head, her dress flapping, and Eponine and Cosette laughed and chased after them. Javert rolled his eyes as Jean chuckled and steered them to the bench where they say down with a sigh of relief.

“What a wonderful life we live, really,” Jean said.

Javert grunted his reply. A slow cloud passed over Valjean’s face,

“If only it could stay this way,” he said darkly.

Javert’s face paled and he shot Valjean a nervous glance before it turned to an amused frown,

“Valjean,” he chided, “you will have an extra accompaniment in your walk, not a lessening.”

“If you say so,” Jean grumbled,

“You know Cosette will still want to walk with her Papa, Marius will always play second fiddle to you.”

Jean sighed heavily, great shoulders heaving,

“But that’s not right,” he said, “a woman should not favour her father over her husband it’s just-”

“You’re catastrophising,” Javert said, “they are not even courting. It is you he is courting currently,” he chuckled, “hoping to curry favour so that when he does ask to court Cosette you will approve with gusto.”

“That will never happen,” Jean rumbled, “besides,” he said, a little smirk twisting his lip, “he’s not my type.”

Javert laughed,

“I’m relieved to hear it!”

“Really,” Jean sighed, “I am being unfair. I have been blessed with three daughters and his letters really are quite polite and respectful and he has only ever been courteous when he has come for tea-”

“You just cannot help how you feel.”

“Yes,” Jean sighed, “I-I cannot bear the thought of letting Cosette go. Even if it is not yet- I know it’s not yet. It all seems too quick and I fear it will be like an avalanche: first Cosette and then Eponine and then in no time Azelma will be married and-”

“You will be all alone,” Javert said, scowling. He squeezed Jean’s hand. Jean frowned and then he cast his eyes up from the lake to meet Javert’s gaze,

“Not alone,” he said, smiling hopefully. Javert stared at him for a second and then nodded shortly and looked out over the lake.

“You seem more of yourself,” Javert said seriously. Jean’s smile weakened but he held it as best he could,

“Yes, I am trying. I am trying to forgive for the sake of my own soul. Forgive myself, forgive Marius,” he squeezed Javert’s hand again, leaving the unspoken unspoken. Javert did not acknowledge the sentiment.

Gavroche came running up the hill laughing, hair a knotted mess, face marked with dirt,

“Azelma took my bicycle!” he said, “she keeps falling off!”

“Then go get it!” Javert answered and Gavroche, giggling, toppled himself into a forward roll and squealed as he rolled down the hill. Javert sighed,

“I should go down there,” he grumbled,

“Don’t” Jean said, smiling, “the girls are with them.”

“Hmm yes, very responsible parenting from me: letting two teenage girls take care of my child.”

“Let’s just relax,” Jean said, “I know you’re… well, you don’t have to worry about being a good parent or being perceived as a good parent. You are doing very well; the courts will see tomorrow how happy Gavroche is and how fond of you he has become. The teachers have written their letters saying how you have encouraged and supported him in catching up with the other children, and he will no doubt be very happy to tell them all about how you have been teaching him to ride his bicycle.”

Javert hummed, unsure,

“Well, I suppose I have done all I can. I will just have to be sincere with the judge and hope he approves of Gavroche being signed into my care long-term. It has… not been as bad as I thought it would be.”

Jean chuckled,

“Please do not phrase it that way.”

“I won’t,” Javert grumbled, “you know what I mean.”

“I know,” Jean said, sighing, “I was dreadfully afraid when I agreed to take all three girls with me, and yet, at the same time, I was so terrified of being alone. I could not bear the thought of spending the rest of my life running, afraid and with no other human who I might love or care for.”

Javert dropped his head,

“I’m sorry,” he said roughly,

“It’s not your fault,” Jean said, stroking his knuckles with his thumb, “let’s not dwell on the mistakes of the past.”

Javert hummed and lifted his head, face tight.

“You will come home straight away and tell me how things have gone?” Jean said, “as soon as you know?”

“Of course,” Javert said.

Jean watched him in a nervous silence, and then, much to both of their surprise, he leant and pressed a kiss to Javert’s cheek. Javert blinked and looked down at him with the same disbelief and fearful delight as he had the first time that Jean had chosen to kiss him. The children came scrabbling up the hill laughing and Javert rose and offered Jean his arm,

“Papa,” Cosette said, panting, “the children want ice cream.”

“The children NEED ice cream,” Gavroche interrupted.

Javert snorted and raised a brow at Jean who raised one in return,

“Who am I to question children on their own needs,” the old man said with a wry smile.

 

As much as Jean enjoyed taking the children to the park, he would always prefer his garden; it was his idyll of peace; it was his little piece of paradise on earth. Everywhere he looked he saw things he had cultivated with his own hands and heart. He felt there could be no better feeling in a man than to look on the things that thrived from his work. Even Marius Pontmercys presence could not ruin his garden for him. He narrowed his eyes as he watched the young man on Cosette’s arm. She was stopping by each flower and gesturing, not doubt telling him about its care and providence. To give him credit he seemed genuinely interested and his eyes sparkled with love. Jean’s frown deepened and he puffed a heavy breath through his nostrils. Just then Gavroche came running into the garden waving a stick,

“Get off Mr Fauch’s vegetables, you fat bastard!” he shouted, waving his weapon at a fleeing pigeon that had leapt out of the lettuces and into the sky.  Marius had jumped at the cry and Jean couldn’t help but chuckle. Javert entered the garden a second later looking gravely serious, he called,

“Gavroche! Young man, do not run in the garden in your nice shoes and suit. Go upstairs and change at once!”

Gavroche sighed,

“Yes Mr-” then he paused and smiled, “Yes Papa!” darting back into the house.

Jean gasped in delight and Javert looked at him from the corner of his eye and smiled.

“He called you Papa!” Cosette called,

“Yes,” Javert said,

“You were successful?” Jean cried, pushing himself up onto his cane and hobbling to Javert to take his face in his hands and gaze at him with ecstasy, “Oh wonderful! Javert I am pleased for you! So pleased!”

Javert smiled, perhaps a little nervous still for it did not quite reach his eyes,

“Yes,” he said, “stressful but… the teachers and the financial backing certainly helped.”

Jean leant up and kissed Javert full on the mouth. There was perhaps a little gasp from Marius but Valjean ignored him. Nothing could ruin his happiness.

“Oh, one moment,” he said, going inside.

Javert was left alone in the garden with Marius and Cosette. She was red-faced and beaming at him and she approached him,

“I know you are not one for embraces but,”

He grumbled some agreement as she wrapped her arms around him and rested her head on his ribs,

“I am so happy for you,” she said. She added quietly, “and for you and Papa. We have all seen how you two have been hurting. It eases my heart to see you look at each other with love again.”

Javert’s expression was pained but he hid it as she drew back and looked upon him from the distance of her arms,

“I think you are a very fine Papa to Gavroche,” she said, “he is brushing his own hair and washing himself every morning without harassment and he was boasting to me the other day that he has learnt his eight times tables faster than any of the boys in his class.”

“Well,” Javert said gruffly, “all he does it complain to me that I make him revise too much.”

She laughed,

“That’s children for you!”

Javert chuckled nervously. He looked up at the awkward young man standing alone in the garden,

“Hello Monsieur Pontmercy,” he said.

“Hello Monsieur Inspector,” Marius said,

“Just Monsieur Javert,” he returned, “No longer Inspector.”

Marius frowned and then he said, “Oh, yes,” and looked embarrassed that he had mentioned it.

Gavroche came running out again in his play clothes, waving a large rectangle above his head,

“Look what Mr Fauch got me!” he cried, waving it under Javert’s nose,

“Very nice,” Javert said,

“It’s a big ol’ chocolate bar! It’ll take all day for me to eat this! Look at it!”

“Yes, very nice,” Javert said, “but don’t you want some of the nice orange cake Cosette has baked for you?”

“It’s alright,” Cosette said, “he can eat what he likes to celebrate,”

“I can have both!” Gavroche said, “I’m a growing boy!”

Javert sighed,

“Oh, go on then,”

“Come along,” Cosette said holding out her hand to her little brother, “why don’t you come in with me and I can show you how to melt some of that chocolate so you can have it on your cake?”

“On the cake?” gasped Gavroche as she led him inside, astonished by the idea.

Jean came out after them and took Javert by the arm guiding him to sit at the little table at his side. Marius remained standing in the garden, blinking stupidly,

“Well,” Javert said, “don’t just stand there, come and sit. You’re making me uncomfortable.”

Marius hurried up the garden and took the chair opposite them, fidgeting with his cravat. Jean frowned at him and Javert elbowed him in the ribs. They sat in an awkward silence for a while.

“How is your law degree going?” Javert said,

“Well Monsieur,” Marius said, “I am looking into going into criminal law. Cosette has been speaking to me of the injustice of the legal system, what with the poor struggling to find decent representation. She thought it would be good if I could extend some kind of charitable work representing individuals who would not otherwise be rewarded good protection.”

Javert elbowed Jean again under the table and Jean grunted,

“Yes, the needs and wellbeing of the poor are a cause very dear to our Cosette’s heart,”

Marius nodded enthusiastically,

“But,” Jean said, “a man does not do well at a task unless there is a passion for it in his own heart.”

Marius coloured and then paled a little at that,

“I understand that, Monsieur. My own father died very poor. He could not see me for much of my life for he could not afford to challenge my grandfather for access and he feared, that if he attempted it, I would be disinherited. He gave up his own happiness to see me get a good education and grow up in safety.”

Jean blinked at this and then frowned, his eyes dipping to the tabletop. Javert watched him in silence.

“It… is the duty of a father to put his children’s happiness above his own,” Jean said, “but it is a good father who commits wholeheartedly to the necessity of that sacrifice.”

“I like to think he would have been a good father if I had known him,” Marius said,

“You misunderstand,” Jean said, “I am saying he was a good father, without question.”

“I agree,” Marius said,

“You must be very proud of him,”

“I am. In fact, that is why I use the name Pontmercy over my family name Gillenormand. In his honour and memory. And it is why I wear black, to grieve his death.”

“That is honourable,” Jean said, “but do not spend your life in mourning those you have lost. I… have lost much of my family but… there comes a time that you must look to the future not as bearing the burden of their absence but as offering you the opportunity to form new loves and familial bonds.”

Marius’ brow drew together in consideration of this and he said,

“Yes, Monsieur, you speak very wisely.”

Cosette came out with Gavroche in her wake. They were both carrying trays: Cosette with the one with the hot tea and Gavroche with the cake platter, his eyes were big staring at his slice of orange cake dribbled with chocolate. No sooner had he placed the tray down that, lacking a chair to sit in, he climbed into Javert’s lap and began to shovel the cake and chocolate into his mouth. Javert frowned and wiped at his messy face with a napkin and forced a cake fork into his hand saying,

“Nicely,”

“Sowwy,” Gavroche said through a mouthful of cake before he began to unceremoniously use the fork as much like a shovel as he had used his hands.

“I will get more chairs,” Cosette said, “Eponine and Azelma will be home soon and they no doubt will wish to sit with us,”

“I will help you,” Javert said,

“No, I will,” Jean said, pushing himself out of his seat and leaving his cane resting beside it, “I need the exercise.”

His daughter looked nervous but nodded and went in with her father.

Marius smiled at Gavroche, watching him as he ate. Yet Javert felt there was something sad in his look and he frowned deeply,

“What is wrong?” he said quietly and roughly,

Marius looked up nervously,

“Nothing,” he said, smiling insincerely. Javert’s scowl deepened.

“Gavroche you are looking very well,” Marius said but Gavroche ignored him, gulping down a big glass of milk,

“Careful,” Javert said, you will make yourself sick. He patted the boys back and Gavroche burped loudly, wiping his mouth on the back of his sleeve,

“Yes,” Javert continued, “Someone told me he knows all of his eight times tables.”

“I do as well,” Gavroche said. Javert patted him on the back again,

“You’re a big strong boy, why don’t you go and help Monsieur Fauchelevent with the chairs?”

“Yeah, alright,” Gavroche said jumping off Javert’s lap and running into the house.

The moment they were alone Javert leant across the table glaring,

“What’s going on?”

“Nothing,” Marius said weakly,

“Liar!” Javert snarled. Marius leant back, crowded by Javert.

“Tell me,” Javert snarled, “if it is something that could bring harm to this family-”

“No harm to the family!” Marius whisper-cried, “Monsieur Fauchelevent might even be the happier for it!”

Javert curled his lip. He reached across the table and grasped Marius’ wrist in a crushing grip,

“Tell me now.”

“You are no longer a police officer-”

“Don’t dawdle, they will be back.”

“My friends are building a barricade; I will join them. If I die there, Monsieur Fauchelevent will no longer have to fear the loss of his daughter.”

Marius dropped his head, sagging back against his chair.

Javert released his grip and sat back also, blinking,

“You’re an idiot,” he said. Marius did not respond, “you will break Cosette’s heart.”

“She is young,” the young man said sadly, “she will fall in love again… with someone who could give her more.” 

“You’re an idiot,” Javert said again, this time with vitriol. Marius shrugged. Gavroche came out carrying a chair,

“I’m stronger than you Marius,” he said as he set down the chair,

“I would hope not,” Marius said, smiling weakly,

“Let’s arm wrestle.”

“Let’s not,” Javert said, “for I would beat both of you.”

Jean came out after carrying two chairs, looking a little pale but generally okay, and he set them down by the table. Cosette brought out a chair under one arm and a jug of lemon cordial which she placed on the table. She put down the chair and then placed her hand on Marius’ shoulder. When he looked up at her she smiled at him and then sat down beside him. Javert resisted the urge to bare his teeth. Jean sat down beside him and brushed his thigh with the back of his hand. Javert jerked down to look and watched in disbelief as Jean trailed the back of his fingers up Javert’s thigh. He looked up at Jean’s face and was met with a wry smile, his eyes twinkling. Javert swallowed and got a hold of himself enough to say,

“Yes, thank you,” when Cosette offered him a glass of lemon cordial.

Gavroche was eating a second slice of cake, this time with his fork.

“Oh look!” Cosette said, as they all heard the front door open and Azelma’s loud but incomprehensible voice echo out into the garden, “there is that little grey cat that visits you Gavroche.”

Gavroche looked quickly over his shoulder at the cat as it jumped down from the wall and then looked to Javert,

“Can I?”

“Yes,” Javert said sternly, “but wash your hands before you come back to eat.”

Gavroche jumped down from his chair and sped up the garden, dropping into a squat behind the flowers to pet the cat which began to roll on the grass.

What a wonderful afternoon it was, one of many that month. Valjean’s improving health had made for a happier home. When the sun began to drop, Azelma and Gavroche went in to play snakes and ladders, Eponine went to her room to write in her diary, and Cosette took Marius by the arm and walked him up the path to let him out of the gate. Alone at last, Jean placed his hand on Javert’s thigh. Javert jumped at his touch,

“Javert,” Jean murmured, leaning to press a kiss to his cheek, “Tomorrow all of the children will be at school…”

“Yes,” Javert said, throat dry.

“Perhaps we could…”

“Hmm?” Javert said. Jean flushed and drew back a little,

“Unless you do not wish to?”

Javert darted him a nervous look. He stared at Jean searchingly and then opened his mouth as if to speak, he said nothing but leant forward and pressed a firm kiss to Jean’s lips. Jean kissed him back, bringing up his hand to cup his jaw and stroke his fingers through his whiskers. When they drew apart Javert whispered,

“If you’re sure… it might not be the right time-”

“It is for me,” Jean said, squeezing his thigh. Javert shivered,

“Alright,” he said roughly, “tomorrow then.”

Jean smiled,

“Tomorrow then.”

And another sweet cool evening closed in on that happy home.

The moment the children left the house Jean turned to Javert and grasped his hand. Javert trembled. How hopeful his lover looked and how terrified Javert felt. 

“Should we… retire?” Jean asked, bashful but encouraging. Javert licked his lips,

“Okay,” he whispered. 

They went upstairs together hand-in-hand, Jean leading the way. 

When they came into the bedroom he turned and smiled at Javert shyly and went to close the curtains. Javert stood by the bed, clenching and unclenching his fists. It was as though it were their first time alone in a bedroom. When Jean had closed the final curtain, he turned and seemed to have expected to see Javert undressing for he looked uncertain. He opened his mouth as if to ask and then closed it and returned around the bed until they stood looking at each other. He reached out and very gently stroked Javert’s palm with his fingers until the other man took his hands. 

“Do you want-?” Jean asked. Javert swallowed,

“I do want,” he said gruffly, “and it frightens me.”

“I won’t ever hurt you again,” Jean replied seriously, “I have no excuse, I will be better.”

“I’m frightened I will hurt you,” Javert whispered and Jean frowned, leaned up on his toes and kissed him gently. Whatever reservations Javert held seemed to slip from him, for he wrapped his long arms around Jean tightly and pulled him flush against him deepening the kiss in that possessive, thorough way that made Jean’s heart flutter. 

Jean drew back only to draw him to the bed. The back of his knees hit it and he flopped down, pulling Javert on top of him. When they broke the kiss, he smeared his lips over Javert’s cheek and pressed kisses to the side of his nose, 

“Tell me what you want,” Jean murmured in his ear. Javert shuddered,

“I want- God, Jean- I just want to please you. I want to pleasure you,” he captured Jean’s lips with his own and they remained like that: hands roaming, tentatively but hungrily tugging at each other’s shirt, pushing buttons through buttonholes.  

When they drew apart again it was to slip unbuttoned shirts from their shoulders. Standing between Jean’s spread legs Javert pulled his undershirt over his head and felt those warm broad hands exploring his chest and stomach, teasing over his ribs and down the dark trail of hair that dipped below his waistband. He threw his undershirt away and looked down at Jean, hot with desire. His hands trembled as they reached to pull Jean’s undershirt from him and, when it was discarded, they looked at each other in tremulous awe. 

“Jean,” Javert murmured breathlessly as he gently stroked his hand through the thick curly thatch of dark chest hair. Jean smiled up at him, eyes creasing with that sweet affection that made Javert feel he were being made anew,

“Javert,” he said softly.

Javert was speechless. He lay himself down so they pressed chest to chest, stomach to stomach, and kissed his saviour with desperate passion. Jean clung to him, hands roaming his back and then finally around the front of his waistband to start unbuttoning his trousers. 

“Jean,” Javert gasped drawing back,

“Tell me what you want,” Jean said, “tell me what you want to do. Tell me how you want me. I’m yours.”

“I’m- I’m ashamed to ask,” Javert whispered against his lips as Jean’s hands pressed inside of his trousers and began to gently tease his stiff cock free. 

“Tell me,” Jean murmured, kissing him gently as Javert’s rigid cock was freed from his trousers,

“I want you to sit on my face,” Javert groaned.

Jean’s brows rose and he couldn’t help the little laugh that escaped him. Javert blushed,

“I told you-” he grumbled and Jean, still grinning, kissed him to silence him. When he drew back his look was all fondness,

“May I ask why?”

Javert’s flush darkened but Jean’s hand gently stroking the length of his cock seemed to assuage him of his worries, for he said breathlessly,

“I have always admired the strength of your loins and- and there is this thing men do for each other that is supposed to be very pleasurable, if you’d let me kiss you there,” he added conspiratorially, “in that secret place.”

Jean’s brow drew down,

“Isn’t that… dirty?”

“I don’t care,” Javert breathed, 

“Oh,” Jean said chuckling, “Well, I suppose I can deny you nothing.”

Javert jumped up quickly, frantically unbuttoning Jean’s trousers as Jean sat up laughing, pulling Javert’s trousers down. They got Jean’s trousers down to his knees before they both realised that they’d forgotten to take off their shoes. That was an awkward and silly affair, but was quickly forgotten when they climbed up the bed together and Jean pulled Javert down on top of his kissing him. They lay like that for some time touching each other and luxuriating in the warmth of skin on skin. This was the first time Javert had seen Jean naked and he both fed his eyes to their fill and felt shy to look. He saw and did not see the myriad of scars; they seemed to him an imperfection that only raised the rest of Jean Valjean to perfection through contrast. He kissed them lovingly and licked them hungrily. Sucked on Jean’s tight pink nipples and massaged his meaty chest. Jean clasped Javert’s hairy behind and squeezed great handfuls of him, sucking on his neck and growling his desire in his ear. Javert trembled at the sound. Their cocks kissed each other between them.

Eventually, Javert rolled them both over, drawing Jean to rest over him, his thick arms braced either side of Javert’s head,

“Please,” Javert begged, “sit on my face!”

Jean chuckled again, voice rough with desire and then pushed himself up to sit on his shins before he shuffled forward to throw one leg over Javert’s chest,

“How should I do this?” he said, looking down at Javert. Javert was speechless, his face bright red. He stared wide-eyed up at the monumental body, at the red swollen cock, and quivered all over. Jean smiled mercifully and gently cupped his face,

“Come,” he said in his soft baritone, “instruct me.”

Javert swallowed heavily,

“Just… shuffle forward until you’re sitting on my face,” he said breathily, “and your balls can rest on my brow I suppose.”

Jean did that, one hand resting on the headboard. Javert’s voice was muffled between his thighs and Jean giggled as the man’s coarse beard scratched him,

“Squeeze my head between your thighs,” came Javert’s muffled voice. His big hands had rested on Valjean’s powerful thighs, squeezing and stroking them and Jean came to feel he understood what the other man wanted. With a smile he sat down and squeezed his thighs The next moment he jumped up gasping-

“-What?” 

“I‘m licking you,” Javert said, still muffled, 

“That’s-”

“Give it a chance,” Javert begged, “if it doesn’t feel good tell me.”

Jean quirked a brow but he really could deny Javert nothing. He sat down again and his gasp turned to a surprised moan,

“Oh,” he murmured. He swallowed heavily, body shivering, “oh.”

His powerful hand clenched at the headboard and his head hung, eyes fluttering closed. What a strange feeling. He squeezed his thighs around Javert’s head convulsively as Javert’s tongue pressed inside and Javert’s moan sent shivers all throughout his body. Jean’s hips rolled and Javert’s hand moved from his thigh to stroke up his stomach searching for a thick breast to squeeze. Jean sighed, his rolling hips didn’t seem to disturb Javert in his hungry licking and he thrust down a little harder. Javert groaned under him, squeezing his thigh in encouragement, groping blindly at his hairy chest. 

Jean fucked himself on Javert’s tongue, big thighs twitching, his head thrown back, eyes pressed closed in bliss. God, a sweet teasing heat filled him up and he moved his hand from the headboard to clench in Javert’s hair, tugging it. Javert made the most helpless and delicious sound beneath him and Jean grasped his own cock with his free hand, mindlessly stroking himself. 

“Oh, Javert,” he groaned, “don’t stop.” 

The hand on his thigh moved to touch gently but insistently at Jean’s hand until he released his own cock and Javert grasped it for him. In ecstasy, Jean clung to the headboard and Javert’s hair, mindless of his own strength, thrusting himself down onto Javert’s tongue and lips and up into his big stroking fist. His words of encouragement melted into one long noise that slipped from his lips, interrupted by panting grunts, and accompanied by Javert’s hungry desperate moaning beneath him. 

“Don’t stop!” he growled, fucking himself hard, “Javert-I- God!” 

He shot over Javert’s pumping fist and splattered the headboard, head thrown back, teeth gritted, muscular body rippling with pleasure. Javert moaned under him, sending delicious vibrations through him with his tongue, and Jean felt himself come apart in a way he never had before.

He flopped to the side to avoid crushing Javert, who came up for air gasping and bright red, hair in messy spikes and chin wet with spit. He turned and moaned at the sight of Jean, soft and melted against the bed, eyes gently closed in pleasure. He rolled over him and kissed him deeply and Jean reciprocated, heedless of where his tongue had just been. 

That big powerful hand rose to cup the back of Javert’s head, where it had moments ago yanked painfully at his hair, and Jean broke the kiss to blink wet-eyed at him, stupefied,

“Javert,” he whispered.

Javert grinned his toothy tiger’s grin at him,

“Good?” he said smugly,

“Very,” Jean sighed. 

“I’ve wanted to do that for a long time,” Javert grinned, eyes bright and dark,

“How did you even know of it?” Jean said, bleary, brow drawn in bemusement. Javert blushed,

“I read a book,” he said shyly. Jean chuckled and then drew him down to kiss him again, lovingly, possessively. 

He moved one hand down to clasp Javert’s painfully hard cock and slid the other round Javert’s neck and down to his chest. He pushed him onto his back, growling,

“Down, boy.”

Javert trembled, grinning maniacally. Jean turned until they were head to toe and then backed up again until his knees were almost either side of Javert’s head. He patted the bed and said,

“Move down. Head between my thighs, dog.”

Javert shook all over, skin goose-pimpled, and he shuffled down the bed so that Jean could squeeze his thighs around his head. He groaned as he buried his face once more in the meat of that powerful, muscular arse. He only drew back with a gasp when he felt Jean’s tongue on the head of his cock,

“-What! What are you doing? You don’t have to, you can just-”

“Did I tell you to speak?” Jean said, voice low. Javert shuddered. He grit his teeth. Jean’s tongue began to lick experimentally at the head of his cock. It was agony. He was so hard, painfully throbbing, burning hot. It was ecstasy. He buried his face in Jean’s taint and balls and arse breathing in the heady smell of him as Jean’s lips sealed around his head and his big powerful hand began to stroke Javert’s cock. It didn’t take much for Javert to be thrusting helplessly into his mouth, crying out in the delirium of pleasure. Jean’s lips drew off him with a pop, his hand jerking Javert sloppily, and Javert cried out, heels digging in the mattress as he spent explosively, hips bucking into the tight fist.

Jean chuckled and rolled off of him again, propping himself up on one arm to look up the bed at Javert with a proud smile. Javert lay weak and sweaty, chest heaving, eyes closed, mouth gaping. When he finally had the strength to open his eyes and look at his lover he whimpered,

“Jean!” 

He had shot his spend all over the man’s gorgeous face and it dripped from his nose and beard.

“Jean-”

Jean chuckled and began to crawl his way up the bed.

“You shouldn’t have,” Javert whined.

Jean lay over him and kissed him, smearing Javert’s mess between their faces,

“Why shouldn’t I?” he rumbled when he drew away and Javert found himself too breathless to reply.    

“You don’t have to,” Javert whispered, “I-I do those things for you,”

“And I want to do them for you,” Jean rumbled, “I love you as much as you love me.”

“Not possible,” Javert grumbled and Jean laughed with delight and kissed him again. 

Javert got out of bed, rolling Jean gently onto his side, and went to retrieve a wet cloth. He wiped Jean’s face tenderly and then his own with a rough scrub, cleaned the cloth and wiped down both their stomachs, cocks and finally cleaned the headboard and wall- they really had made quite the mess. 

There was little chance of them getting hard again before the children returned home so they spent a few hours lying in each other’s arms, touching each other gently and sighing with contentment. When they had both grown stiff from lying in bed they got up, dressed loosely and Jean went to tend his garden while Javert produced two sandwiches and drinks and took them out on a tray. Jean looked up at him, squinting against the sun and smiled widely. He reached up his hand and Javert helped him to his feet and they went together to sit on the little covered bench at the back of the garden where they ate, drank and kissed. 

“If this is what it will be to live when the children have flown, I don’t think it will be so bad.”

Javert frowned as he kissed Jean’s brow and pressed his nose into his hair, breathing deeply.  

When the children returned home Javert spent some time chasing Gavroche with a flannel to clean his face and then set him up with a shovel and hat so that he could assist Jean in the garden. Then he said goodbye to the girls and went out. 

For the first time in a long time, he went to the prefecture. 

He thought, as he paced up to the building, that they might not recognise him but they did. He was brought inside by, not ebullient but certainly curious, ex-coworkers who, when they heard his grave and serious tone took him through to see Gisquet. Gisquet was most certainly not happy to see him but he sat back in his chair and smoked his pipe patiently, feet propped on his desk, while Javert talked nonetheless.

“Well,” he said, when Javert had finished, “I see you’ve not quite given up all your hopes of being a policeman again.”

“I have,” Javert said seriously, “but not my hopes of being a good citizen.”

Gisquet looked somewhat entertained by this. He dropped his feet to the floor and folded his arms on the desk,

“I appreciate you bringing this information to me Javert, but I should inform you that we are already aware of the little revolutionary group and their plans to build a barricade.”

Javert sat up in his seat,

“You will arrest them then? Before the barricade is built? You must have enough intelligence? Who has been your spy?”

“That is none of your concern,” Gisquet replied, “not anymore. Chabouillet always insisted you were a straight arrow but you’re a loose cannon in my experience. I’m not letting you anywhere near this situation. Despite that, you’re not even a police officer.”

“I’m not technically retired.”

“It’s only a matter of time, Javert. Don’t put off the inevitable.”

Javert bowed his head. Yes, that was true. He was putting off the inevitable, wasn’t he?

Javert returned to his flat and scraped together his belongings. When he had moved his things to Jean’s home, he had hidden some things in his old room. At that time, he had doubted that he would live with Jean long-term and so to continue renting, although expensive, seemed wise. By climbing on the bed, he could easily reach the rafters. He pried a board loose and reached into the shallow loft pulling out a metal box. In it were his knife, gun, some bullets, and his police badge. He took them out and laid them on the bed and stared at them, face drawn in a grimace. He hid the items in the inside pockets of his long coat. He breathed out heavily through his nose and then slowly lowered himself onto his knees, rested his elbows on the bed and brought his hands together in prayer. He held this stance for some time in silence, expression grim. Then he went to the Gorbeau residence.  

He trudged up the stairs and went to Marius’ door. He turned the handle and it was locked. He knocked. He knocked again loudly. He knocked a third time. There was a quiet cough. Javert turned. The little old lady peering around the wall by the stairs trembled at the sight of him.

“Where is the tenant who rented this room?” Javert said,

“He left. Paid his last rent and moved out,” she replied.

He curled his lip in a snarl and swept passed her and down the stairs.

He went to the Cafe Musain. It was closed and locked. The lights inside were off. He pressed his face the window and cupped his hands around his face. It was empty. The chairs were up on the tables. He growled again. He felt at a loss. He returned home. On the way, he passed a newspaper boy and paused. He looked down; the boy noticed his interest and pushed a paper on him with enthusiasm. He took out his coins and paid for it and then went quickly to a quiet corner of the street and read it. Indeed, it laid out that there was a barricade built in the narrow streets around rue Saint-Martin and rue Saint-Denis. His gut sank. He read the article seriously, made note of the location and then gave the paper back to the baffled newspaper boy. He returned to Rue Plumet.

Eponine ran up to the gate to let him in. She had a look of nervous panic but said nothing. They walked together to the bush that covered the path and Javert stopped and grasped her shoulder, turning her towards him. She stared up at his grim, drawn expression and then she dropped her face into her hands,

“I don’t know what to do,” she said, “Cosette will hate me!”

“Tell me what you know,” Javert said,

“Marius and his friends have built a barricade. They’re idiots!”

“I know that,” Javert said. She looked up at him, blinking away her tears,

“You do? What can I do about it? She loves him, you know? Even though he’s stupid. And she knows it, but she loves him. She says he has a good heart.”

“You can do nothing about it,” Javert said, “it is a matter for adults to deal with.”

“But you don’t understand,” she said urgently, clasping at the lapels of his coat, “he plans to die there! They all do! They think it will be a noble sacrifice that will ‘wake up’ the people of Paris. They want to be shot.”

“I will talk to the police,” Javert said, “I will tell them to be merciful and to let me speak with the boys, to see if I can bring things to a close peacefully.”

“Are you sure they will listen to you?” Eponine said,

“Can you get me a notepad?”

Eponine nodded, turned and ran into the house.

She returned quickly with a notepad and Javert set to very seriously scribbling a note. When it was done, he read it over, exhaled heavily and then folded it in four and handed it to her.

“Do not read it,” he said, “but give it to Jean if I do not return by tomorrow.”

Eponine looked at the paper. She nodded seriously and then tucked it into her dress. Javert looked at her for a moment. He reached out a big hand and clasped her shoulder and squeezed. He said,

“Look after Gavroche for me.”

She nodded. 

He turned and walked out of the gate and disappeared into the night.

Eponine watched him go, her hands wringing her handkerchief in her hands. When he was fully out of sight she returned to the house. Gavroche was marching down the stairs, a scarf tied jauntily around his neck and a big stick over his shoulder,

“Eponine,” he said, tipping his cap. 

“Where are you going?” Eponine said, scowling,

“Oh, you know,” he said, “secret mission for us politicals.”

She grabbed him as he reached the hallway, clenching his little arms in her wolf’s claws,

“No, you’re not!” she growled,

“Oi! Ge’r’off!”

“No!” she snarled as he wriggled in her grip, “you’re not going!”

“Get off me! I’m goin’! You can’t stop me! It’s for The People!”

“Azelma!” Eponine yelled.

Both girls came running in from the garden,

“Stay outside with Papa,” Eponine said to Cosette, “keep him distracted!”

Cosette nodded and went back outside,

“What’s going on?” Azelma said seriously,

“Help me get Gavroche upstairs, we can’t let him leave the house.”

“What- why?”

“Get some rope.”

Azelma nodded and ran off to find some rope. Gavroche began to swing his little fists at Eponine and she grunted, and then shot Azelma a look of relief when she returned,

“I’ll yell!” Gavroche said,

“If you yell,” Eponine said quietly, “I will tell Papa everything and then he will pick you up and throw you in your room anyway.”

Gavroche growled, curling his lip in a snarl. Azelma and Eponine grabbed him, an arm each, and they began dragging him forcefully up the stairs. He kept struggling and kicking but they got him to his room and Eponine caught him in bear hug while Azelma grabbed a chair away from the wall. Eponine pushed him down into it and together the two girls began to tie him up with the rope. By this time, he was sitting with his arms crossed pouting tremendously.

“You’re mean,” he said,

“You’re stupid,” Eponine replied, “they’re going to die you know.”

“No,” Gavroche said,

“Yes.”

“Nuh-uh.”

“Yes,” Eponine said, “Enjolras said they intended to die.”

“Well, I wouldn’t die,” Gavroche said stubbornly.

“Who’s dying?” 

Eponine looked nervous,

“My friends from the Cafe Musain-”

“Our friends,” Gavroche interrupted,

“Are building a barricade. They intend to get the army to kill them to incite a revolution.”

Azelma wrinkled her nose,

“That’s stupid.”

“It’s not!” argued Gavroche,

“It is,” Azelma said, “because you literally can’t do anything when you’re dead; you can’t even make a sandwich let alone incite a revolution.”

“You’re an idiot,” Gavroche replied, “everyone will feel sad they die and start a revolution.”

Azelma rolled her eyes again,

“Oh, who cares about a bunch of little boys dying? I don’t.”

An awkward silence fell over the room. Eponine could not meet her sister’s eyes. Gavroche shook his head gravely,

“This country is doomed.”

 

Canon Character Death

In the guise of a police officer, Javert made his way easily amongst the ranks of the soldiers. The illusion of authority he had somehow managed to maintain bought him answers to grave questions, answers which settled heavier and heavier in his gut until he felt a great shroud had been thrown over him while he still lived, weighing him down. Having confirmation of his fears, he made his way through the streets attempting to find some weak point in the barricade through which he might make his entrance. He found one in a side street and, while climbing over a pile of chairs and tables, he was summarily accosted. 

“Well, well,” a man’s voice said. Javert swallowed and dared to look up. He knew the man’s face but poorly and he did not dare attempt the name. The gentleman appeared drunk, for the mouth of his gun wobbled,

“You’d be better climbing out,” he said, “for tonight, or perhaps another night soon, every gentleman unfortunate to find himself this side of the barricade will die.”

“I would not see that happen,” Javert replied, voice low and gravely, look solemn.

“Then you would need be God himself. Or perhaps the king?”

“I am neither.”

The man grinned and tipped an invisible hat,

“We can say at least you are sane, although I might find some comfort in the company of a madman.”

“You should be comforted aplenty.”

“You know, Inspector Javert, I had heard bad things of you but you really do seem like a reasonable man. Would you care for a drink?”

“Perhaps later.”

At that moment, Marius appeared about the corner and, with a cry, the gun in his hand drooped to the floor.

“Monsieur!” he said, hushing his voice as he approached them at a jog, “you should not be here, you will-”

“Die,” the first man said, eyes twinkling, “yes, he knows that.”

“Please Grantaire,” Marius said, touching his friend upon the arm, “give me a moment. This man is my…” he seemed to stumble for the appropriate word,

“Acquaintance,” Javert growled. Grantaire stifled his laugh with his forearm and tipped his invisible hat once more,

“As long as you can assure me this man is no spy?”

“No,” Marius said and then he glanced nervously at Javert, “are you, Monsieur?”

“I am here on Cosette’s behalf.”

Marius grew pale at this and even Grantaire seemed affected for he grew grave and heaved a sigh,

“I’ll let you speak,”

He left them alone, walking up the alley and disappearing around the corner.

“Monsieur-” Marius began but he was cut off by Javert grabbing him furiously by the lapels and dragging him towards the barricade snarling,

“You foolish boy!”

“Unhand me!” Marius cried in a whisper-shout. He struggled against Javert’s claws but they were fiercely knotted in his jacket and he dropped his gun with a clatter.

“You’re lucky it is me who heard of your betrayal!” Javert snarled, “If Jean had put his life in danger, you would have found your death at my hands!”

“As those other men did?” Marius cried and Javert froze. This momentary distraction gave the boy opportunity to break free and he staggered back,

“I am sorry,” he said, “I am, but you must understand duty? You must understand what it means to live by your values?”

Javert’s chest heaved, his black pin eyes stared as if searching out some figure deep beneath the dark surface of the water, they did not look at Marius but through him,

“Yes,” he said, “I know what it is to live by your values… but to die by them? There is only one thing I would die for now; that is the transformative power of love. You say you love Cosette?”

“I-I do-”

“I do not believe you. You could not love her and leave to her to grieve you, you would commit her, young as she is, to a life of pain and loneliness-”

“She will love another-”

“You know that?”

 Marius swallowed. He bowed his head, his hands fell to his sides,

“It is too late… I could not leave my friends now. My mistake has been m-”

In a moment Javert had used the great length of his legs to break the distance between them and with a swing of his big fist he cracked Marius across the chin knocking him out cold. He caught him barely before he hit the ground and began to drag him, like a wolf dragging a carcass, towards the pile of chairs. There was a click,

“That won’t do,” the man- Grantaire- said. Javert froze, stooped over Marius’ unconscious body.

“I empathise,” Grantaire continued, beginning to close the gap between them, gun no longer wavering, “but that’s no way to treat a delicate fellow like Marius.”

 

*

Eponine put her hands on her hips,

“What was your plan anyway?” she said, voice short and accusing, “there are soldiers all around the barricade already, you could not even get in.”

“Well,” Gavroche said, lifting his chin with pride, “I’m a smart sort of fellow so I had already considered that. I would tell them that my wife was pregnant and I needed to pass them to get home.”

“Your wife was pregnant?” Azelma said, forehead creasing as if she were coming to some great understanding,

“Yes.”

“That’s so stupid!” she cried suddenly, throwing her head back with shrill laughter, “Why would anyone want to marry you anyway?”

Eponine shook her head,

“Azelma, he is eight.”

“Even more reason no one would want to marry him!”

“You’re stupid,” Gavroche sighed, “of course I’m not really married. That’s what a lie is.”

“You’re both stupid,” Eponine said seriously, “Azelma because she just is, and you Gavroche for trying to get yourself killed at that barricade. It is bad enough to have Javert there but the thought of worrying for the both of you-” she caught herself then and brought up her hands to cover her mouth. Gavroche seemed not to have heard her for he said,

“I wouldn’t have got killed, I’m too smart for that,” then his words drifted off slowly and his forehead too drew together, “Papa?” he whispered. His head flew up,

“No!” he cried, legs kicking, “untie me! Untie me now, you cow! You bitch! Untie me right now!”

“No!” Eponine barked, “you stay put! You’re not listening to me!”

“He’s going to die,” Gavroche cried, beginning to rock the chair, “and it will be all your fault because I won’t be there to save him!”

Azelma looked between them,

“Why is he there?” she said, “he doesn’t even believe in politics?”

“Marius is there,” Eponine said, “and he is retrieving him for Cosette.”

Gavroche hit the floor with a loud bang and the two girls rushed to right him. His little eyes had filled with tears and he tried to bite them,

“Let me go!” he snarled, voice wet, “let me go! I hate you! I’ll kill you!”

Azelma wrapped her arms around him, tucking her face into his shoulder,

“It’s alright,” she said, “he will be alright,”

“No, he won’t! He’s not smart like me! He’ll die! He’ll get himself shot! You know he’s been shot twice! He’s an idiot!”

She stroked his hair,

“He’s a grown-up,” she said, “and he’s been shot before which means he’s used to it and he’ll be fine anyway.”

Eponine had folded her arms across her chest and she began to pace. The burden of being the eldest sibling had begun to weigh on her. She had never loved Gavroche until this moment. Seeing him, red-faced, snot pouring down over his lips, eyes soaking Azelma’s shoulder with tears, she felt a deep powerful well of empathy open in her heart for him.

“I’ll go,” she said, “I will go and bring back Javert.”

Azelma whipped her head round to stare at her wide-eyed,

“No!” she cried, running to clasp her sister’s arms. Eponine shook free of her and went to the bedroom door,

“I’m going,” she said seriously, “I’m the eldest. It is my responsibility.”

Gavroche stared at her, wide-eyed and sniffling. Azelma followed her sister into the corridor and grabbed her again as she went to descend the stares,

“Please,” she said, “Eponine, don’t go.”

“I have to. I’m the eldest.”

“I’ll go,” Azelma said, “I mean it. I mean it! I know what you’re always saying is true: I’m not very smart and I’m not very kind. I’m never going to be anyone important like you or Cosette. My best quality is that I wear hats very well; you are going to be a politician and change the world.”

Eponine stared at her,

“Please ‘ponine,” her sister continued, lip quivering, eyes reddening, “please, I meant it. I’m not special like you. Should I die, it would not even really matter.” 

Eponine clasped her sister’s arm in a bruising grip, 

“It would matter very much to me.” 

She motioned her head towards the Azelma’s bedroom and said only,

“He needs you. You are his big sister and you are his favourite. Look after him. I will be back soon.”

Azelma bowed her head and stepped back. Eponine went down the stairs, took her scarf from the hook and went out the door. She could not bring herself to look back. 

 

 

*

Marius woke with a splitting pain in his skull. The lights seemed too bright and his mouth was dry,

“Here, drink this,” Grantaire said and, for once, Marius accepted his offer without argument. He creased his nose as he drank from the bottle of wine and rubbed his eyes with the back of his palm, pausing to gingerly touch his jaw.

“He knocked one of your teeth out,” Grantaire said, chuckling, “He would have lived a better life as a boxer, I think. Or an orangutan with arms like that.”

Marius finally opened his eyes,

“Where is he?” He croaked,

“Enjolras has him tied up in the back of the shop.”

“He’s not a spy,” Marius said quickly, tongue feeling thick in his mouth, “he knows that? You have told him that? They have not treated him too harshly?”

“You know he is not Enjolras’ favourite person,” Grantaire said, the shadow of a half-smile on his lips, “you know he is a tool of the state?” 

Marius nodded,

“But who is he to you?” Grantaire asked, “I know he had interest in Eponine and Gavroche?”

“Yes,” Marius said, “he is Gavroche’s father now.”

 ‘Gavroche’s father,’ Grantaire’s lips formed the words, his eyes wide and voice mute with wonder,

“Well,” he whispered, “what a story that must be. Let’s drink to that.” 

He retrieved the bottle from Marius and downed the last of it. 

“But to you?” He said, frowning, “and is he a good father? Tell me that?”

“Gavroche is very happy, he knows his sums and letters and even has a bicycle.”

“His very own bicycle. My,” He seemed to be thinking deeply on that again and he drew another bottle of wine from somewhere, uncorked it and drank deeply, “God knows I have never known a little boy more deserving of a bicycle. But he is not the father of your Courgette, so what is he to you?”

“Cosette,” Marius growled,

“I know that, I am teasing.”

“He-” Marius stumbled; what was Javert? He was not Cosette’s father, that was Monsieur Fauchelevent… except, perhaps Javert was her father in some fashion? Her stepfather? Marius scrubbed the back of his neck. It was stained with dirt and gunpowder. The sound of guns firing offered him only a moment of reprieve,

“He is her stepfather in a way,”

“Then the old man, Monsieur le Blanc…” Grantaire laughed again in delight, “come, let’s speak to our Inspector.”

Marius stumbled to his feet to follow him inside quickly. He was horrified when his eyes adjusted to the light and he found himself looking upon Inspector Javert, folded over himself, arms tied to the pillar behind him, the rope tight around his throat.

“Javert,” he croaked and Javert looked up, eyes deep in shadow,

“I hear you are a fruit, old man,” Grantaire said jovially, “considering our location we could say you are a grape. Would you like a drink? Come, one grape to another.”

Marius had not sighted Enjolras who rose from where he had rested on a tabletop,

“Then you have found out the truth of it, Grantaire,”

“Yes indeed,” Grantaire said, “it is as they both made it seem. This old fellow is here on behalf of Marius’ girl.”

Enjolras looked down upon Javert with a sneer,

“Then it has been even more of a waste for you to try and convince us to give it up.”

“Someone must try to.”

“No someone must not. We are all aware we shall die here. Those who wished not to die have left already.”

“It’s worthless,” Javert croaked, “no one is listening, no one has woken. How does death change a world? You had a chance to make things better: you had education, privilege, power awaiting you. You have thrown it all away,” he hung his head, “you could have helped people. Now you will only be reminder of what happens to those who wish to make a change.”  

Enjolras curled his lip at him,

“You doubt the power of symbols. People grow blind to their oppression because they become accustomed to its subtleties. But confronted with the brutality? Yes, they turn their eyes away, but that injustice sits in their heart. Their anger grows, the desire to make a change will be planted tonight in a hundred hearts.”

Javert only shook his head,

“A hundred more martyrs.”

“Enjolras,” Marius said, stepping forward, “please, you must realise he means us no harm. Let him leave. He will return home.”

“No,” Javert snarled, “I am staying! I have made myself clear. I am not leaving this place empty handed. You will return to Cosette with me or I will remain here and return your body to her.”

Marius bowed his head.

“You are a stubborn old man,” Grantaire said, “are you sure you would not like a drink?”

“I am sorry, Inspector,” Marius said, “I thank you in advance for returning my body to my family.”

He turned to leave and Enjolras followed a stopped him with a hand on the shoulder,

“You are sure?” he murmured, “there is no shame in it, Marius. You have fulfilled your duty.”

“I thank you, Enjolras, but there is shame in it. I have given you my vow.”

Enjolras dipped his chin and let him go.

 

Javert was angry, but not at his own fate, he was at peace with that. He had set his mind to die some time ago, it had only been a matter of how. He was angry at Marius. Angry that Marius should behave so naively and selfishly. Worst of all that he should hurt the family of Fauchelevent, a family which he knew had suffered so much, and which had suffered so much more than he knew. Javert truly hated him in that moment. It would have been a gamble, had he been freed at that moment, for he might have killed Marius as quickly as saved him. His mind turned to the face of Jean Valjean and he hung his head, squeezing his eyes closed. He wanted to think of anything else. He could not bear the pain of it. That face, that sweet countenance that glowed with holy light was the only thing that made him regret his decision to die. It was better, he thought, that he should die. Marius had no reason, but he, Javert, was cursed. He had been, from birth, a monster, his life stained with the deep red mark of crime. It had occurred to him that he was predestined to be a killer, that he was predestined to be no better than his own father. All his life he had been circling that place- Toulon- waiting to return to it. Jean Valjean had spent so much of his life rising above his youthful mistake, how could Javert burden the man’s soul with his own crime by association? Perhaps Jean might never love another, but he was old and he could live happily in the bosom of his family. He would one day grow to hate Javert, to resent him, and then he would find himself grateful that Javert had done the considerate thing and removed himself from his life. 

The gun shot did not frighten Javert. The cannon fire did not frighten Javert. Only the appearance of Marius, bloodied and limp in the arms of his friends, brought the stab of fear into the heart of Javert. 

Time passed and more bodies were brought inside to be laid down and prayed over, to be the bearers of tears and foolish exhalations of commitment to their shared self-sacrificing cause. It seemed the great maw of martyrdom spared only that shepherd who had lured all of its innocent victims, for their leader remained unharmed. Javert’s gullet filled with bitterness. He drank from the bottle Grantaire offered him but never grew drunk, too drunk already on the iron tang of blood and on his hatred of Marius who he glowered at, as still as he had been when first brought in and laid upon the table.

The figure that entered, cloaked in a dirty brown cloth that it drew about its head as a cloth, did not draw his eyes from their loathsome glower and he only came to gasp and start when he felt the cool press of a blade to his wrist.

“Careful!” hissed a familiar voice and he started again, trembling with terror,

“Eponine!” he hissed,

“Yes,” she said, beginning to saw at his bonds, “now be quiet or you’ll give the game away. Where is Marius?”

His words dried his throat,

“On that table there,” he croaked.

She froze and then he caught sight of her as she leant around him to look. Her face was pale and drawn, her eyes filled with horrors,

“Is he dead?” she whispered,

“I don’t know,” he replied. She gnawed at her bottom lip and then returned to her work,

“That I had been here to save him…”

“If I could not you would not. Cosette would be no better off for the loss of a sister.”

She did not answer him but sawed all the harder. A man stepped in through the door,

“It seems I am everywhere today,” Grantaire said, levelling his gun.

“Turn your mind to your drink, that is what you seek is it not?” Javert sneered,

“Indeed, a man would need to be mad to face his death sober.”

“Or brave.”

Grantaire seemed to curl his lip in a laugh,

“But I keep finding your friends. Show yourself.”

“Oh, shut up Grantaire!” Eponine growled, throwing off her hood, “and help me untie him!”

He blinked at her, dark hole of his gun lowering to the ground,

“Eponine,” he said, “what are you doing here? You are a child.”

“Yes, I am a child and yet it is my brother you would lure here! You cur! Help me.”

He frowned,

“I would not have Gavroche-”

“Then how did he know of your plans? Now get lost or help.”

He seemed out of his senses for he placed his gun on the table beside Marius’ still form and approached her, squatting to help her pull at the knot.

“I did not tell Gavroche of our plans. I would not have him here for anything. He should live and have a good life, as should you. You should not be here.”

“Well I am.”

“You should leave,”

“Not without Papa Javert,” she growled and Javert felt something catch in his throat, some big great lump that choked him.

Grantaire made a thoughtful noise and helped her, finally pulling free the knot. She got quickly to work untying the noose that held Javert to the pillar and he quickly turned his free hands to untying his feet.

“We must collect Marius and begone from this place. We will climb out over the barricade the way I came.”

“I dropped down from a window,” Eponine responded, “but I could not climb back up that way.”

“You cannot go out the way you came in,” Grantaire said, looking up at Javert as the man unfolded before him until he stood a tall, dark tower of judgement, “a young fellow grew afraid earlier and in a moment of terror he fled that way. There are national guard there now and they shot him down.”

Javert sneered,

“Then we shall find another way.”

Eponine had run to Marius’ side and she lay her ear to his chest for some time.

“I hear nothing,” she whispered, eyes wet.

Javert grunted, snatched the knife from Grantaire’s hand and held the flat of the blade over Marius’ mouth. After a moment a thin mist formed there.

“He is alive,” Javert said. Eponine crossed herself.

“Now we must get out,” Javert growled. He began to pace, only three short steps and then turned back again, back and forth again and again, like a tiger in its cage. Grantaire had pushed himself to his feet and then climbed to sit on a table beside a body, his hands folded in his lap.

“What would Valjean do?” Javert mumbled to himself, tugging on his beard and grinding his teeth. Valjean was like a mouse, he might always find his way out of any situation. Some hole, some tunnel to skitter into… he paused,

“The sewer,” he whispered, “yes, we will go through the sewer.”

Grantaire dropped from the table as Javert lifted Marius and threw him over his back with a grunt. He followed them outside and accompanied them as they sought out a sewer grate. Javert deposited Marius’ limp body beside it and began to strain to lift it. Grantaire watched him for a moment and then tugged up his trousers to kneel beside him and lift the grate, scraping it over the stone. Enjolras stepped up and startled him with a hand upon his shoulder,

“You are leaving with them?” he said. Grantaire gave him half a smile, almost a laugh,

“Impossible.”

Enjolras only nodded and returned to the barricade.

“Here,” Grantaire said, “you descend and I will lower Marius to you.”

Eponine went down first, gagging and with her hood tied around her face like a mask to defend from the smell. When she confirmed she was out of the way, Javert followed and, when he was nearly at the bottom, Grantaire grunted and lowered Marius down legs first. Javert collected him and threw him once more over his back. Grantaire only smiled at them and said,

“I will pour one out for you. For good luck,” and then he was grunting and the screeching of metal over stone sealed them in darkness.

“Javert?” Eponine called, her voice weak and fearful, belying her age.

“I am here,” he said, “take my arm and hold on tight.”

 

The journey through the sewer could only have been borne with if it had been a nightmare, for at least in a nightmare there was a promise of waking. Here is seemed they would be lost forever, for the turned time and time again to find themselves at dead ends of facing endlessly long tunnels of darkness. Several times they waded through deep water and Eponine wept and clung to Javert’s arm to hold her head above the filthy sewerage, almost dragging him down with her. She began to cry seriously and then silently, shaking as she trudged beside him through the filth. Javert did not weep. He felt and thought of nothing. That part of him that had grown to survive the filth and horrors of prison had absorbed him completely and he moved insensate, undisturbed by his surroundings. Suddenly, he froze,

“A noise,” he whispered. Even Eponine’s silent tears stalled. Indeed, there was a sound: water moving and a quiet clattering.

They moved forward quietly and came to find the silhouette of a man bearing a shuttered lamp,

“Ho there,” Javert called. The man stilled and then turned sharply,

“Hello there,” he said, “what have we here?”

“I am lost,” Javert answered him, “show me the way out and you will be rewarded handsomely.”

“Indeed, indeed,” the man replied, “is that so? What is that you have there, upon your shoulder?”

“A body.”

“Is that so?”

“It is so.”

“Should I not be concerned by that?”

“What is that you have there?” Javert said, motioning with a tilt of his head to what lay drifting in the water at the man’s waist. The man chuckled and Javert felt his heart grow cold at the sound, for he knew that laugh well.

“Well, it seems we are birds of a feather, aren’t we?” Thernadier said, “I suppose I shall show you my good heart- as long as you shall not take advantage of it. For I have this key see, a gentlemen’s key, the key to the city, for with I should be able to go whether I please.”

“That’s good,” Javert grunted, approaching him and keeping his face tilted to hide it in shadow. It seemed Eponine had recognised her father also for she stayed tucked tightly against Javert’s back, concealed by his silhouette. Thernadier approached them and began to rifle through Marius’ pockets. This was no concern to Javert who remained alert should the man show any sign of noticing Eponine but he seemed not to, happy no doubt to have fumbled some treasures from the boy’s pockets as he kept Javert ‘distracted’ with his talk.

Much to Javert’s surprise, the filth did in fact flow downstream and Thernadier led them true. He unlocked the grate and even as the moonlight struck Javert’s face he did not seem to recognise him. The vile materials that had covered his face and matted his hair seemed to protect him.

“Thank you,” Javert grunted and Thernadier, with a weasel smile, tipped his hat, “Monsieur.”

Javert carried Marius (Eponine shuffling in front of him now to remain hidden) out into the blue light of the moon. He huffed and puffed and staggered as he made his way up the stairs to the walkway above and then dropped Marius’ heavily,

“Call for a cab,” he choked out between painful gasping breaths. Eponine nodded, wide-eyed and went to run up the street but he caught her before she could leave,

“I will not be here when you get back,” he growled, “do not wait for me. I will meet you at Monsieur Fauchelevent’s.”

She frowned at him,

“You have money?” he said,

“Of course.”

He took out the knife and pressed it into her hand,

“Do not pay the driver until he has helped you lift Marius into the carriage. Should he be in poor faith you will need this.”

She paled but nodded,

“It is for your safety only,” he said gravely and she nodded seriously.

“But Monsieur,” she said, “I promised Gavroche-”

“I know,” he said, “and he will have a father, I promise you that.”

She nodded again and fled down the street screaming for a cab.

He watched her go, looked down at Marius, who he nudged with his foot, growled,

“You best not be dead!” and then he returned back down the stairs.

 

Javert was exhausted. Every inch of his being ached. He yearned for a hot bath and his bed. Even the cold rushing waters of the Seine seemed appealing to him for they would cleanse more than his body of filth. He staggered to the sewer grate and rattled it. It was unlocked. This surprised him. This reassured him. He opened it silently and trudged into the darkness with mechanical intention.

It was not hard to knock the shuttered lamp from Thernadier’s hands, nor to throw him down into the thick, heavy sewerage. It was harder to find him, and he found him only when he surfaced. They made a staggered chase through the thick mucus of humanity. Thernadier made it out of the gate first and he fumbled over the slippery key as he tried to lock it behind him but Javert threw himself bodily against it ramming it open. Thernadier stumbled backward, falling painfully and then scrambling to his feet,

“What is your temperament, man!” he cried as he began to run, trousers heavy with sewerage. He still did not recognise Javert, how could he? The man was black and lank with filth. Javert lumbered after him, long legs making short work of the distance, and they collided.

“I’ll give you what I took!” Thernadier squealed, even as he drew his knife and plunged it into Javert’s hip.

Javert grunted, puffing out a foul-smelling breath, and drove them both on, staggering and wrestling towards the edge of the Seine, towards that rushing blackness that clawed at the wall of its enclosure.

The distant stars, for all that was written of them, observed nothing. But, later, an old woman would say that she heard a man’s shrill cry of fear and then watched as a shadow toppled over the wall and down into the depths of those raging, hungry waters.

“Two men, or one?” the police officer asked, but she could not say and the heavy rain had smeared the filth of the streets and the blood from the barricade into a heavy plasma, as if the very stone of Paris itself were bleeding.

*

Eponine returned home and drew her father out to the carriage. He cried out in a noise half animal rage and half bone-deep terror, and clasped her into his arms, blind to the filth on her body. He paid the driver handsomely, sent her inside to keep Gavroche in, and accompanied Marius’ still body home, carrying him into the bosom of his family. Then he returned in the carriage and rode in it to the Seine. There he stood at the wall and looked down into the water and saw only the stars, twinkling.

He returned home. He clutched his children to him, all of them, and drew them to sleep in bed with him, holding them all to him. Gavroche wept terribly upon his chest deep into the night, until the waters of his grief had run dry, and then he slept like a babe. Even the girls slept, wrapped tightly in each other’s arms. Only Jean lay awake, staring into the darkness. The darkness of the water, that lapped at the edge of his vision, and drew away the roof into its depths until all he saw was the distant light of the stars.  

The next day he took Gavroche to the Rue de la Chanvrerie. There he held the boy once more as he wept bitterly. Then he lifted him in his arms and carried him home.

By the evening he was exhausted. The girls had taken Gavroche upstairs to bed, for he could not bear to sleep alone, and Jean remained alone in his armchair beside the fire. In his hand he held a letter, scribbled quickly on a piece of notepaper. Eponine had give it him. He had not read it. He was too afraid. He looked at it now. He knew on sight that it was Javert’s handwriting. He knew after the first few words that it was Javert’s suicide note. He could not bear to bring himself to read the rest of it but he did, out of love and respect. As was Javert’s way it was largely practical and very succinct. It stated that he had made a will in which he commanded Gavroche be given into Fauchelevent’s care. It stated that he went knowingly to the barricade to die. It stated that this was for the best. It… lamented,

‘Love has made a murderer of me.

And worst of all

I feel no regret.

For it is a guard dog’s duty to defend his family.

But a dog that bites must not be kept in the home.

I hope that you might forgive me, for your sake, not for mine, so you might put me out of your mind.

Do not think fondly of me.

-J’

Jean clutched it so tightly in his hand that he crumpled it. Then he almost dashed it into the fire. He did not. It was not the letter he hated. He shook. He trembled as a house in a storm. He could not weep for what he felt was not sadness, or grief, but some deeper force of Nature that moved him in a way the human body could not express. Then he went upstairs to bed.  


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


How cruel it was that time could pass when for all the world Jean Valjean would have wished it to stop entirely. He would have rather climbed into a coffin and slept in it, waiting, than waken every day to the rising sun. For the children, life seemed good for Javert wrote them often from America where he remained undercover on his secret police mission. Two years passed and yet they still adored his every letter, poring over them and reading them again and again, taking them from their sacred sepulchre in the draw beside Gavroche’s bed and unfolding them with reverent hands. The boy had grown tall and done well in his studies, finding a passion for history; Cosette had gotten engaged and began her training as a nurse; and Eponine had moved to work as a nanny for a good and well-respected family in the countryside. Jean Valjean? He had grown very good at imitating Javert’s handwriting. He had always been a liar but no lies had ever tasted as bitter to him as the ones he wrote in those letters. He sickened himself, but still, he wrote. The children needed Javert. Alone, during the days when Gavroche was at school, he walked often to the Seine and looked down at the water. Only Javert’s belongings had been found: his hat, police badge, gun, and coat. They had been littered along the wall except for the jacket which had been hooked from the water by a boat.

Jean Valjean looked very much as he had always looked but for his eyes which had grown deep set and heavy with bags. His expression was always solemn. His daughters forgave him and Gavroche had hardly known him to be any different. The family that had looked after Cosette in Montreuil sur Mer, who had suffered so much after Madeleine’s denunciation, had been written to and now they lived in a good house in Paris and the daughter, who had treated Cosette as one of her own, was Ultime Fauchelevent’s housekeeper and Gavroche’s nanny.

It was late June when Jean Valjean packed himself a suitcase and informed the nanny that he would be going away and that he would need to stay at the house and care for Gavroche. Gavroche was an independent young man and accepted this good-naturedly as long as it did not interrupt his piano lessons and his tennis. He had taken well to being middle class and enjoyed it very much.

With his suitcase in hand, Jean Valjean hired a carriage and set out to the north. He travelled for the better part of a month, stopping at inns and enquiring casually into the state of local harvests. How had the season treated them? Were there men needed for the harvest? He was too well dressed to be looking for work and so was treated with the polite amusement suited for ignorant city folk. He travelled on until finally, he came to a small town not quite near the coast. 

In a field, beneath the slowly drooping sun, a group of men heave hay bales onto the back of a cart. It’s getting late and they’re tired so they take turns at filling a tin cup from a bucket of fresh water from the nearby well. A short man with thinning red hair hands the tin cup to the tallest man of the group,

“Here,”

The tall man is a hard worker and he stops only to take the cup and drink from it deeply and gratefully, wiping the water drops from his grey beard.

“Thank you,” he grunts. He puts his cup back on the seat of the cart, limping as he walks, and then he returns to heaving up haybales.

“You know you can have a break?” Anouilh says, scratching his scalp through his thinning hair. The man scoffs,

“I’ll have a break this evening. I’m a slower worker than you. The consequence of being a cripple.”

It’s true; he has a weak shoulder and a bad knee.

Anouilh shakes his head,

“Well, you are what you are, LeBlanc.”

LeBlanc heaves two more bales into the cart. It’s getting full.

“Hey,” Anouilh says, pointing past LeBlanc’s shoulder, “That old fellow not bored watching us yet?”

LeBlanc turns sharply.

There, standing by the distant fence is an old man with a halo of white hair, orange light warming his shoulders like the glow of a fire. He raises his hand slowly. LeBlanc swallows heavily.

“You know him?” Anouilh asks.

“Maybe,” LeBlanc answers, “I’ll go see what he wants.”

It takes him a while to make his way across the field, the limp, exhaustion from his long day, and a growing fear that tightens like ropes around his heart, all slow him down. The closer he gets the clearer his vision becomes and he can no longer deny who awaits him.

“Hello,” Jean Valjean says softly, gentle face lifting in a not quite smile. Javert swallows. His hands find the fence and rest there nervously, picking at some splinters with his dirty nails.

“Hello,” he croaks.

“I have finally found you,” Jean says.  

 “I don’t-”

Jean’s face drops immediately into a thunderous scowl,

“Don’t,” he growls, “it’s time you came home.”

“I can’t,” Javert says, “the children-”

“They know you’re alive-”

“How?”

“You’ve been writing to them.”

Now Javert’s face falls into a snarl. Jean does not back down,

“No excuses,” he rumbles, “I’ve found you. I’ll find you again. You cannot run from me, Javert, God has bound our paths in life together, we will meet again and again and there is no force that can keep us apart. You can run from me but I will follow you and I will find you again and again and, by God Javert, I will chase you. I will hunt you to the ends of this Earth. You will never escape me.”

“You don’t understand,” Javert croaks, “I am protecting you.”

“I understand what you believe but I do not care to listen. I am past listening; it is time you stopped speaking and started obeying. Do you understand?”

Javert trembles,

“Yes, sir,” he whispers.

Jean’s hand moves to rest over Javert’s own, halting the panicked picking. Javert shivers. Slowly, Jean tugs Javert’s hand from the fence and takes it in a gentle but firm grasp. His thumb strokes a tender circle over the rough, scratched palm. Javert chokes. His head bows. His shoulders shudder. A whimper barely slips past his lips.

“Javert,” Jean whispers, “come home now.”

“I- I have to finish my shift.”

“Where are you staying?”

“There’s an inn in town-”

“Where are you staying?”

“I’m renting a barn loft from the old lady that owns this farm.”

“I’ll sleep with you tonight.” 

Javert swallows heavily. He raises his eyes to gaze at Jean from beneath his bushy brows. His eyes are wet and wide. Jean sighs at the sight of him.

“My love,” he whispers, thumb stroking gently over that palm, “I’ll wait here for you to finish.”

Javert returns to work.

 

LeBlanc does not answer any of his peer’s questions. He’s troubled, his heavy brow furrowed, his short nose wrinkled into a snarl. His peers understand well enough that he does know this man and that they are better-off not asking about how.

The light dims enough that work is no longer worthwhile. There is a chill in the air and the cart is loaded. The men climb into the seat, squeezing practically into each other’s laps,

“I’ll walk,” LeBlanc says brusquely. The cart rattles off down the path towards the village and Javert waits by the fence as Jean limps along the path to meet him. They stand in silence for a moment, tense and then Jean holds out his hand,

“Lead the way.”

 

The walk to the farm was tense. The sky was dimming to a deep orange and then to a dark blue, and the path was muddy and slick. A dew had settled on the fields and the straggle-grass at the edges of the footpath. They walked in silence, side by side and did not look at one another. A little house sat in the shadow of a high barn and they came to the door and Javert shuffled from foot to foot and knocked. An old woman answered the door and although she initially startled at the sight of Valjean his gentle demeanour and fine dress reassured her and with a little explanation she welcomed them both in.

She had great confidence living out there, that old woman, for she had a barrel-chested son and two strapping grandsons. They managed to pull up a chair for Valjean around the dinner table and although the men were initially off-put by his dress Jean soon made good companions of them with his knowledge of wood and its working, and of the land and its working also. Javert was glad to sit in silence and focus on his meal. The old woman was scandalised when Jean asked to sleep in the barn, certainly a man like him deserved to take a bed in the house! But he insisted and Javert tried to hide his paling face as she acquiesced.

They went in silence together to the barn. Javert lit the lamp while Jean petted the nose of a little grey donkey. Javert climbed the ladder up to the barn loft like a man going to the noose. There was a low ceiling up there and he had to turn onto his bottom and shuffle along so that Jean had space to climb up beside him. They sat beside one another in the hay and the dark, hunched. Then Jean was upon him. It was a quiet shuffling and scuffling accompanied by harsh breaths that grew to gasps and the smacking of lips. Jean’s hand had found the back of Javert’s neck and he grasped him firmly, holding him like a cat held her kitten, pulling him back and pinning him against the floor with the weight of his body. Javert’s legs had parted for him on their own and his foot hung perilously over the edge of the landing for a moment before he dragged it back in to grind his heel against the floorboard. The wood creaked. Somewhere outside an owl hooted.

“Stop!” Javert gasped, breaking the seal of their lips. Jean drew back. His eyes glinted in the dim light; his breath was hot on Javert’s face. They stared at each other. It was Javert who lurched up to seal their lips again. Jean scuffled further up on top of him, peeled Javert’s hands from where they had bunched in the back of his jacket and he pinned them above Javert’s head.

“Stop!” Javert gasped again. This time Jean moved his lips, dragging them over the dark beard and down under to suck at his pulse. Javert writhed under him,

“Jean,” he whispered, “stop. It’s wrong.”

“No, it’s not.”

“Jean-” Javert whispered,

“Enough talking,” Jean growled, “you’ve said enough.”

“It’s wrong, Jean. I’m wrong for you. You were better off without me.”

Jean drew back. Javert was terrified. He trembled, pinned by those terrible, burning eyes. Slowly, that powerful hand came to cup Javert’s face. So gentle, so strong. Able to crush but choosing to hold; choosing tenderness.

“Do you still love me?” Jean whispered.

“Always,”

“Then don’t speak. There is nothing that could come between us. I have made myself clear: you will never be free of me, Javert. It is not your choice. You are mine, God has willed it, and what he makes cannot be undone.”

“I don’t believe-”

“It doesn’t matter,” Jean murmured, leaning down to steal his breath from his lips, “I will make you believe.”

Javert pressed up against him. His legs moved of their own accord to wrap around Jean’s waist, squeezing, as Jean filled the space he’d left empty all that time. 

“I couldn’t bear it,” Javert choked out, lips against the corner of Jean’s mouth, “I can’t bear the thought of it. I’m not strong enough. To live ten years in heaven on earth with you and be separated for an eternity afterwards.”

“Who would separate us?”

“Me. My sin. God, Jean. I killed two men. I don’t have any regrets; except for forfeiting you.”

Jean kissed him, moving Javert’s wrists to hold them in one hand so that he could clasp the back of the man’s neck and tip his head back to deepen the kiss. His fingers toyed in the short prickly hair on the back of Javert’s neck.

Javert could not help but submit himself to him. That was what terrified him most: how easy it was to submit and not consider the consequences.

“I’m not afraid of torture,” he murmured into Jean’s thick neck as Jean sucked on his earlobe, “I’m not afraid of pain or hunger; that is not Hell to me. Hell is being without you. That is what I fear. That is what I must prepare for. I have to be ready-“

“Why?” Jean growled, “because you think I would allow you to be taken from me? You think I would not follow you into Hell? As you would follow me?”

“I would not let you.”

Jean drew back and there again was the beast. His powerful hand squeezed and Javert gasped, eyes bright and dark, reddened lips parting.

“You could not stop me.”

Javert moaned beneath him, grinding against him, against the hardness that was pinned over his thigh, beneath the fine but now dirtied trousers.

“God could-”

“He would not dare.”

And then he was seizing Javert and devouring him, and Javert’s hands were freed so that Jean could undo the buttons of Javert’s trousers and Javert’s own hands were bumping his as he reciprocated. They were twining like snakes around one another and gasping each other’s names- terrified and longing and desperate and over-brimming with desire. Javert clung to that powerful body as it drove him down against the wood, as it pushed splinters into his bare behind. The heat and friction between their bodies was overwhelming. The boards creaked and heaved, the donkey brayed, hay and dust fell from the loft. Javert wept into Jean’s shoulder; Jean kissed away his tears. It was only brief. Then they lay together in a shivering tangle of limbs, hot and dirty and afraid.

“I don’t want to hurt you,” Javert whispered into his neck.

“You have already hurt me. It’s time for forgiveness,” Jean kissed Javert’s ear, his hair, his beard; breathed in the smell of him deeply, “forgive yourself for me.”

He petted that greyer-than-black hair, murmured,

“Come home with me,” voice so low and gentle against Javert’s ear that he could not resist.

“Yes.”

 

They packed up Javert’s things the next morning and informed the old woman that Javert would no longer be in her employ or staying in her loft. Jean comforted her with a more than generous financial compensation and then borrowed a pair of tweezers to pull the splinters out of Javert’s arse. The carriage ride home was mercifully private as Jean insisted on hiring a personal carriage and driver. It was of great benefit as they fought loudly and quite aggressively when Javert discovered Valjean’s letter-deception. His accusations and recriminations were met hotly with Jean’s own bitter justifications and they ended up having to stop the carriage so that they could both take a walk. They walked about a mile in opposite directions, turned, looked at each other from a distance that felt vast, and returned to the carriage with their tails between their legs. It seemed they could not leave each other. They were quiet after that. The curtains drawn they sat together, Javert in Jean’s lap, those strong arms wrapped around a body that had grown thin and bony from deprivation. Jean’s chin rested on Javert’s crown and the gentle rocking of the carriage lulled them both into a doze.

When they woke in each other’s arms it was with the quiet, mutual realisation that any amount of anger or hurt would be worth suffering for this quiet pleasure. This was heaven: to press your face into your lover’s neck, to feel him encircle you and surround you, to be protected and cherished and reassured, to fill the place the universe had made for you. This was what God had made Javert for, and in equal measure what He had made Jean for; and that was both terrifying and elating in equal measure. There was no need to say, ‘I love you.’ It had already been said and fought for. Javert lay his hand over Jean’s heart and Jean lay his hand over Javert’s. That was all that was needed.

*

Ten years, fifteen years, twenty years on earth, all these were worth an eternity in hell. Gavroche’s feet stamped explosions in the foaming waves as he jumped over each crest, getting closer and closer to Azelma as she screamed and held her hat tightly to her head. He threatened to splash her over and over with his feet and she giggled madly, face turning up to the sun. He had grown tall and it had taken several months for Javert to grow used to it so that he did not start every time he realised that the little boy he had abandoned was now taller than his older sister and almost as tall as the oldest two. The leggings of Javert’s striped swimsuit were rolled up and he paced easily out into the water to lift Gavroche by his arms like an ape lifting its infant so that he could throw him into the water. The water splashed high and almost knocked Azelma’s hat from her head and she screamed half in delight and half in outrage as she ran back for the shore. Her sisters were seated under a parasol with Marius, who only had eyes for Cosette, and the three of them were talking quietly. Azelma’s wet feet splashed water on Eponine’s book as she passed, running up the beach and Eponine exclaimed but only rolled her eyes and didn't make chase. Azelma came at last to topple onto the hot sand beside her father, under his own parasol, and she lay her head in her lap crying breathlessly,

“Papa, they splashed me! They ruined my hair and my hat!”

Her father cooed to her, untying the ribbon beneath her chin to lay the wide-brimmed hat aside so that he could comb her hair with her fingers,

“Now, now, my dear, you look as perfect and beautiful as ever.”

He had long ago abandoned his book, too pleased to enjoy the beauty of the beach, and more importantly the sight of Javert, a gentle smile on his upturned face as he lay at Jean’s side under the shield of the parasol. When he had gotten up to throw Gavroche Jean’s tender affection had threatened to overwhelm his heart. 

Gavroche had decided to swim laps and Javert met Jean’s eyes and smiled as he made his way back to the shore. Sand stuck to the baking soles of his feet as he approached and Azelma shifted up against her father to make room for him beneath the parasol.

“Javert, fix my braids. You wet them and you’re better at tying them.”

Javert smiled,

“Put your back to me,” he said and she shuffled so that he could untie the ribbon and release her hair. He combed it through as she sat and talked to them both, availing them of her work,

“And,” she said, “do you remember that party Papa? At Madame Babineaux’s grand house? Of course, you do. Those six girls there, well I spoke all night with them about Chateau Chapeau and the next day we all went as a group and each and every one of them purchased a hat or bonnet! Madame said it was the best day's sales she’d ever had from a saleswoman!”

“Your expertise gives them confidence,” Javert said as he frowned, focussing on plaiting her now bristling hair, salt water drying quickly in the sun,

“Exactly,” she said, nodding and disturbing his work, “I think she will promote me soon.”

“That’s very fine,” Jean said, smiling at her indulgently, “that’s very fine indeed!”

“Madame Babineaux said her daughter enjoyed so much our day out shopping that she wants her to spend more time with me. I said, Madame Babineaux your daughter is very pretty but she does not dress as fine as she should! Give me free reign of her and I will make her a beauty! And I think she was very impressed, and I think it’s true: I think I could make her a beauty although in truth she is quite plain.”

Then she wrinkled her nose, “Eurgh, Eponine, what do you want?”

Eponine threw herself down at Javert’s back, laying her head on his shoulder, her long ponytail falling over it,

“I’m growing bored of Cosette and Marius and I thought I should come and save Papa and Javert from your gloating.”

Azelma rolled her eyes,

“You are just jealous.”

“Maybe I am,” Eponine smiled, “Madame Babineaux’s son is quite handsome.”

“He is I suppose,” Azelma said, “but he’s quite old.”

“There’s nothing wrong with an older man, is there, Monsieur Javert?”

Javert scoffed and Jean frowned,

“Eponine,” he chided, but he couldn’t keep his annoyance when Javert was smiling at him quietly and knowingly.

“I want sandwiches!” Gavroche shouted, crashing back to shore.

“You should grow your hair long,” Azelma said, looking at Javert, laying her head back on her father’s lap, pillowed on her arms, “You’re so very good at plaiting hair.”

“I used to plait my mother’s hair. I don’t think I could do it for myself.”

“Well Papa can’t grow his hair long: he’s getting balder every day!!”

Gavroche laughed as he came crashing down in the sand before them. Eponine had made use of herself parcelling out sandwiches and soon Cosette and Marius were running hand-in-hand up the beach with their parasol to set themselves beside their family and widen the reach of the shade. They all sat together eating sand-crunchy sandwiches and little cakes, and drinking cloudy apple juice

Things had not always been idyllic. The first few weeks they had lived in a world that seemed to rest on an unevenly weighted ballast. Everything was fear and anxiety, glances around corners, grasping hands clutching in the night to reassure their owner of the presence of the other. Slowly these desperate clutches had softened to caresses and they had laid side-by-side, gazing into each other’s eyes, and touched each other with innocence and awe. Hands stroking from cheeks down the curve of a neck, cupping shoulders, resting on the plain of a chest searching for the steady beating of a heart. It was a while before they shuffled together across the pillow to press lips to lips. Waking in the night to run fingers through hair, to press tender kisses to drawn brows, to calm nervous twitching became common, became welcome. For the first time in their lives there were no lies between them. They spoke of everything: self-loathing, fear, jealousy, anger, resentment, desperate love, the overwhelming pain of the yearning heart. They laughed. They could not help but laugh, for all their lives they had been running from each other, always desperate to be caught. They would not run away again.

This time on the coast, renting a grand old manor house and spending their days in the town shopping or playing by the sea, was their reward for patience and compassion. Marius was Cosette’s betrothed now, his family aware of her, his career beginning and whatever money he had leftover put aside to support her in becoming a nurse. Of course, she did not need it, she had plenty of her own, but the intent had softened Valjean somewhat to the boy. The grand old manor house was for the children and they had taken to ‘making house’ with great abandon. They threw parties and dinners every night, most nights with themselves as the only guests. Javert was still getting used to having money and he had stood with a creased face the entire time Azelma, Eponine and Cosette had taken him shopping. The sisters had insisted he had a nice suit so that he would look ‘suitable’ to attend the parties at 'their manor house'. Of course, Cosette had reassured him ‘he looked handsome no matter what’ and ‘would always be welcome’ but Azelma had told him he could no longer ‘dress like an American.’ They’d bought him three fine suits, finer than any Javert had ever owned, and had surprised their father with him. The flush that spread over Valjean’s cheeks and ears when he caught sight of Javert made the hours of being poked and measured and critiqued all worth it.

“You look very handsome,” Jean said, taking Javert’s hand shyly, and Javert had blushed red and muttered some kind of thank you. Of course, the girls had giggled.

 

Tonight’s party had come to an end when Jean and Javert had excused themselves to walk arm in arm in the cool night air, ambling comfortably over the well-kept lawn towards the fine little guest house that stood at the end of the garden. It was more of a cottage than a house, smaller than the main property on Rue Plumet but larger than the gardener’s hut Jean was used to. Their excuse for their early departure was age but in truth Jean had taken the time to purchase some gifts for his beloved during his day alone. The stars were twinkling above them and they giggled together, stumbling as they made their way.

Jean put the key in the door and opened it into the dark room beyond. Javert entered, stripping off his jacket quickly as Jean lit the candles and softened them with their shades. His hands, broad and strong, took Javert by the elbow and turned him. Javert span on the spot, a broad grin across his face as he looked down into Jean’s smiling eyes. Jean’s hand slid down to clasp Javert’s long-fingered, dusky hand in his own, thumb stroking over the hairy back of his palm,

“I bought something for you,” he murmured, pushing up on his toes to brush a kiss over Javert’s bristly cheek. Javert turned his face to meet his lips and Jean dropped down, grinning, before their lips could touch,

“Why don’t you get undressed, my pet?”

Javert’s grin grew, his teeth big and crooked and white in the dark. Jean stepped back, attending to the parcel he had hidden behind the bed while Javert rustled, eagerly stripping off and folding his clothes over the back of a chair. By the time Jean had finished his work, Javert had finished his and he turned and met his beloved’s eyes with a smile. Javert stood naked, cock rising and thickening, body shivering in the cool night air. His dark nipples were hard and the hair on his body stood on end, perhaps from anticipation, perhaps from the cold.

“Down, boy,” Jean said, pointing. Javert dropped to his hands and knees, eyes wide and dark. Jean smiled at him, he couldn't help it, and it was a broad and indulgent smile that creased his eyes until they were two glinting slits in his face. 

He turned and, after a moment of enjoying the view, brought something to Javert, concealed in his hands. When he revealed it Javert trembled with repressed pleasure.

“Here,” Jean murmured, “for you, my love. May I?”

Javert nodded, tipping back his head to expose the long column of his throat. His Adam’s-apple bobbed. Jean took the thick, black leather collar by both ends and looped it around Javert’s throat, pulling the leather through the buckle and drawing it tight until it bit into the flesh and made him gasp with excitement. Then he loosened it a little, just enough to not bruise. His hands rested there on the leather, embossed with his own name: Valjean, then gently slid up to cup Javert’s bristly jaw. Javert gazed up at him, eyes wide and dark, blown with love and adoration, and Jean leant down and kissed him. His thumb massaged circles over Javert’s cheek.

“My love,” he murmured, leaning down to kiss Javert softly again and, as he drew back, Javert pushed up on his knees to follow his lips. Jean stepped back until the back of his calves met the bed and then he reached behind himself and clasped his next gift, opened the bedside draw and took out the vial of oil. The object in his hand was alien to Javert and he watched curiously as it was oiled.

“Lie over the bed,” Jean commanded, patting the bedcovers and Javert rose to his feet,

“Uh-huh,” Jean chided, “crawl.”

 Javert grinned, dropping back to his knees he hurried and bent himself over the side of the bed. Jean rose to stand behind him and Javert sighed as Jean’s broad, slick hand smoothed over the curve of his behind. Javert’s breath caught in his throat as he felt that hand slide in, in until it pressed between his cheeks and he spread his feet on the wood floor. Those thick, calloused fingers found the tight ring of muscle hidden between his cheeks and rubbed gentle, teasing circles around it, dragging it open little by little. Javert groaned, pressing his face into the bedsheets and arching his back in encouragement. They had done this many times since their reunion and it had only gotten better and better, and Javert’s hunger for it had only grown more and more. He craved more than anything the possessive touch of those hands. The thought of Jean’s name at his throat, marking him as belonging to that strong, gentle man, only furthered his passion. Jean’s fingers pressed inside and Javert moaned shamelessly pushing back on them to draw them in past the first two knuckles.

“Good boy,” Jean murmured, stroking Javert’s arse and lower back, “take it all.”

Javert whimpered and began to rock back onto his master’s fingers, impaling himself all the way down to the knuckle, moaning. Jean’s free hand massaged circles on Javert’s spine.

“Good boy. Good boy.”

How Javert loved it, how he loved every word, every affectionate touch. He was another man under and around Jean’s hands, soft and malleable and completely trusting. Jean spread his fingers, stretching Javert open and then drew his fingers out with a wet pop. Javert’s knees trembled and he pressed back against Jean’s clothed crotch, grinding himself against the trapped erection he found there. Jean chuckled, his own voice growing breathy, as he petted his sweet love,

“Patience,” and he drew back, replacing his own hardness with the hardness of something else. Something blunt and slick. Javert turned his head curious but trusting and allowed it to be pressed inside. It went only a few inches, it was perhaps only as long as Jean’s fingers but was thicker, flared near the base, and he hissed with pleasure, turning to press his face into the bedsheets.

“It was quite mortifying, the thought of buying sex… devices, so I whittled this myself. I feel a little foolish,” Jean chuckled massaging Javert’s back with both hands, “how does it feel?”

“Thick. Good.”

“It’s supposed to help stretch you open… as preparation for…” He drifted off, nervous.

Javert’s head twisted round in a way that looked painful. His eyes were wide,

“Tonight?”

“If you still want to?” Jean smiled, cheeks red.

“Yes,” Javert breathed, “more than anything.”

“What position would you like?”

“However you’ll give it to me.”

Jean chuckled again and offered Javert a light spank which, combined with the plug inside of him, made him moan.  

“On the floor now,” Jean said, sitting on the edge of the bed and pointing between his parted knees.

Javert slid of the bed eagerly and crawled to kneel between his knees, drawing his hands up as if begging like a dog. Jean, of course, had no intention of denying him what he begged for and he unbuttoned his trousers with an indulgent smile, drawing out his hard cock, thick and flushed red. He tilted it so that Javert could wrap his lips around it and Javert wasted no time diving his head forward to take it as deep as he could. He had been practicing a lot of course and he had grown well accustomed to the thickness and length of his master’s cock. He swallowed around it eagerly as Jean’s hand came to rest in his hair, stroking it encouragingly as Javert gulped and sucked and rocked his head, taking it deeper inch by inch until he was drooling around the base, nose pressed into Jean’s silver pubes. The collar at his throat restricted him somewhat and he moaned shamelessly as he drew back, dragging his lips and tongue up the length to hollow his cheeks around Jean’s leaking head. He sucked and licked at the tip, pressing his tongue beneath the foreskin and swirling it around the flared rim of the head. Jean moaned his encouragement, hand clenching and relaxing in Javert’s hair, blunt nails scratching over his scalp as Javert’s tongue stretched his slit and licked up the precum that beaded there. Then he was diving down again, burying his face in Jean’s stomach and groin, and bobbing his head, sucking loudly and wetly, moaning as each rock of his body moved the wooden plug inside of him. Javert’s own cock stood painfully hard, curved and reaching towards his master, red, leaking, twitching as he gulped and choked around the thick length that stretched his lips and made his throat raw.

“Enough,” Jean whispered, voice coarse with lust. When Javert did not release him from his lips he knotted his hand in his dog’s gunmetal hair and wrenched him off. Javert popped off of him wet and moaning helplessly, spittle dribbling over his chin and his eyes fluttering closed with pleasure.

“I said enough,” Jean rumbled and Javert’s cock jumped against his belly. His dark eyes fluttered open and he whimpered appealingly, pouting. Jean kissed him, sucking his wet bottom lip into his mouth and biting it. Javert moaned, pressing forward to mould himself against him, wrapping his long arms around Jean’s waist as Jean deepened the kiss, licking himself from Javert’s tongue.

“You’re very sorry, aren’t you?” Jean purred as Javert moaned against his mouth, sucking on his master’s bottom lip, “good boy.”

Jean soothed Javert’s sore scalp with a tender hand as they kissed before he drew back, half out of a need for air and half to ask:

“What position would you like to start in? It might hurt.”

“Mount me like a dog.”

Jean burst into delighted laughter, petting Javert’s hair,

“Of course. Let’s get on the bed, and I need to get undressed.”

Javert creaked up to his feet, grunting with discomfort and climbed onto all fours on the bed, licking his lips and he watched Jean strip. There was almost nothing he enjoyed more. His eyes had hungered all his life for that body. The rolling pastures of that body were his promised land. He ate up every ripple of muscle, every inch of pale skin flushed pink with desire, every perfect white hair. He wanted to taste all of it, and not only with his eyes. But he was good, he was obedient, so he only watched and waited, licking his lips like a hungry dog. Jean glanced up at him and met his eyes, smiling knowingly, as he folded his trousers. He lay them over the back of the same chair where Javert had hung his clothes. He approached with a pace that emphasised all that subtle, repressed power that Javert loved. That made his heart pound in his chest. Jean climbed onto his knees on the bed and shuffled up behind Javert to rest his cock in the crack of his arse. Javert shivered, grinning as Jean’s hands, broad and strong stroked up and down his flanks soothingly.

“What are you waiting for?” Javert said, catching Jean in a toothy grin, “You’ve kept me waiting long enough!”

Jean chuckled,

“Yes, well… I am nervous. I don’t want to hurt you. My only experience is…”

“I know,” Javert interrupted, “but this is not that.”

Jean’s hand smoothed down the dark hair at the base of Javert’s spine before sliding down into the dip of his arse,

“I know,” he murmured,

“Then trust yourself and trust me.”

Jean smiled and with no more hesitation he pulled the plug from Javert’s hole. Javert groaned, head dropping between his arms.

“Okay?” Jean asked as he discarded it,

“Yes, very. I want you so badly. God.”

Jean smiled, cheeks red, and dipped his eyes as he lubricated the length of his cock,

“I’ll try to last,” he chuckled. 

The tension in the air thickened as he rested the blunt head of his cock against Javert’s hole. It was stretched and wet already but they both still tremble with fear. Jean licked his lips, rested one hand on Javert’s hip and pressed forward. Javert moaned, shuddered and, before Jean could protest, pushed back on him. Now Jean gave a cry as his cock, hard and leaking, was surrounded by a soft heat that drew him into its welcoming and loving embrace. He groaned through his teeth, eyelashes fluttering over his cheeks, and pushed forward relentlessly until Javert’s arse was pressed against him. He stroked up and down the length of that hair-flecked back, feeling the nodules of his spine, the shivering of his muscles. Around him, Javert’s body relaxed, its grip softening.

“How do you feel?” Jean rasped out, his voice rough and deep,

“Good,” Javert rumbled.

“Feels good.”

“Mmm.”

They rested there together. 

Jean leant down over Javert, wrapping his arms around him, pressing his chest to Javert’s back. He dragged kisses over those broad shoulders, the hairy slope of his neck. Javert twisted, bringing up one hand to cup Jean’s cheek, and met his lips in a sloppy kiss. It deepened and they sank together into that warm, sweet closeness.

“I love you.”

“I love you.”

Javert’s hand stroked down the slope of Jean’s neck, over his broad, thick shoulder, and then down his ribs to rest on his hip,

“Make love to me.”

Jean kissed his cheek,

“Yes.”

 

It’s wonderful but uncomfortable, Javert must admit. Jean is thick and his body aches accepting him. There are tremors of fear in his heart every time Jean draws out and presses back inside. His hands on Javert’s hips are grounding and he breathes deeply and focuses on that, and on how much he loves Jean, on how much pleasure Jean is taking from his body. Jean pauses,

“Are you enjoying it?” 

Javert cringes,

“Yes." He is.

“You’re usually more vocal.”

“I’m concentrating.”

Jean hums,

“I’ll try some different positions.”

He shuffles on his knees, the bed creaking, and Javert grunts as that thick cock shifts inside of him. He bites his bottom lip. Jean’s hand presses on his lower back and Javert adjusts himself to rest on his elbows and arches his back obediently. This time when Jean draws back and slides in, Javert's breath catches in his throat.

“Better?” Jean asks,

“I think so.”

Jean’s hands squeeze his hips and he thrusts again. Javert gasps.

“Better?” Jean repeats 

“Please-” he starts, “Jean, God, please.”

Jean grunts and rocks his hips forward, this time Javert moans. His whole body shudders, his eyes fall closed,

“Jean…”

He couldn’t have imagined it would feel this good. He had liked the feeling of Jean’s cock inside of him even if it hurt but this- whatever thoughts might have been forming are quickly wiped away as Jean finds a rhythm that has him whimpering and rocking back to meet the cock that thrusts inside of him. 

“You like that,” Jean purrs, satisfied. Javert groans. Jean’s right hand slides up Javert’s spine and knots in his hair tugging his head back and Javert releases a noise that is utterly shameful. Somehow the painful tug on his scalp only makes the pleasure sweeter. He whimpers. Jean is groaning and panting behind him. The sound of his hips slapping against Javert’s behind and the wet thrust of his cock inside of Javert’s hungry body is lewd; it sounds illegal, it sounds sinful. The bed creaks with every thrust.

“I want you on your back,” Jean growls, “I want to watch you.”

Javert moans as Jean’s cock slips free with a wet pop, and he shuffles onto his back eyes hazy as he watches the man he adores, the man he lusts after, re-lube his cock. Jean’s powerful hands grab the back of Javert’s knees and he pulls them up to rest on his shoulders. Javert moans helplessly as Jean’s thick cock presses against his sensitive hole and pushes inside, no longer hesitant. His head rolls back as Jean thrusts into him. Jean grunts and adjusts himself again, leaning over Javert, folding him in half, pushing him down into the bed. Javert wraps his arms around him, clings to him, cries out as Jean thrusts at this new angle- impossibly, wonderfully deep. Jean grunts into his ear with every thrust, his hot breathes puffing over Javert’s cheek. There are tears in the corners of Javert’s eyes and Jean’s lips smear them away. He’s crying out, his nails scratching new marks into Jean’s thick, scarred back. God help him, he is losing himself. God help him, he is Jean’s; Jean’s in every way, Jean’s completely. Jean is over him, beneath him, inside of him: his body, his soul, his mind. Jean kisses him and Javert gives over anything there is left of himself. He is nothing now: a vessel to be filled. Jean breaks the kiss. His face is red, his eyes hazy, black with lust,

“I want to watch you spend. Do it. Do it for me.”

His fist slips between their stomachs and closes around Javert’s agonised cock. Javert cries out. His muscles spasm. Jean moans into his mouth, breathing hoarsely,

“Yes, beautiful. Perfect,” Jean rumbles, “Do it, come on. Just like that.”

Javert arches off the bed. His body tenses, clenching around Jean’s cock, stroking, encouraging, and Jean groans as he spills deep inside. Javert shoots between their stomachs. His eyes close as any thought is blown out of him. There’s nothing left but the sweaty heat and strength of Jean’s body surrounding him and the feeling of Jean’s hot seed filling him up. He whimpers and shivers and clings, trying to ground himself. Jean falls on top of him, heavy and tacky and they lie together trembling.

The cool night air slowly wicks away the hot sweat from their bodies. Jean is incredibly heavy. After a moment he grows aware enough to shuffles himself slightly to the side and off of Javert’s chest and stomach. Neither of them can collect themselves enough to speak, there’s no need to speak. Javert’s fingers trail up and down Jean’s spine. Jean presses kisses against Javert’s tacky neck. They drift into sleep that way, not knowing any better, not knowing how uncomfortable they will be when they wake up; or perhaps not caring.

They wake up stuck together by a mixture of sweat and other unable things, but they don’t make any effort to fight it, curled around each other, faces pressed into necks. Jean brushes kisses over Javert’s tacky forehead, nosing in his hair. It’s darker now, perhaps midnight. Javert tries to twist to press his face into Jean’s chest and he grunts with discomfort. Jean’s hand caresses his cheek,

“Do you hurt?”

“No… yes, a little but it’s mainly uncomfortable.”

Jean kisses him again,

“Let me clean you up.”

Javert has to push himself up onto one arm then so that he can enjoy the sight of Jean nude and beautiful pacing across the room to a bowl of water.

“I should warm it up first,” he says, pausing and redirecting himself to squat down and light the fireplace. This sight is also appealing. Javert grins. Jean shoots him a knowing smile over his shoulder and then brings the deep bowl of water over to warm by the fire. He dips the flannel in it and cleans himself there and then and Javert sighs, watching him happily as he wipes his flaccid cock. How he loves that flaccid cock, still appealing thick, foreskin concealing that beautiful red-pink head. Jean draws back the foreskin to clean himself and Javert licks his lips. When he’s done cleaning the dry semen from his matted pubic and stomach hair, he dunks the flannel and washes it out,

“Nice and warm now,” he says.

He cleans Javert’s cock first, delicate and affectionate. He smiles fondly all the while he scrubs and teases the dry cum from Javert’s dark stomach hair and then moves to clean between his thighs, his taint and finally his reddened, sore hole. Javert sighs all the while, shivering with pleasure at the tender ministrations. When he’s done cleaning, Jean traces the puckered ring of muscle with a gentle finger, before leaning down to press a kiss to Javert’s belly-button.

He returns the cloth to the basin and then himself to Javert’s outstretched arms, climbing back into bed beside him and drawing him to lay over him: Javert’s long leg hooked over Jean’s thigh, and his equally long arm thrown over his broad chest. Javert tucks his face into Jean’s neck and Jean traces a finger in circles over his lover’s bony shoulder.

“You know,” he says, before Javert’s breathing can grow too deep and slow, “we have consummated our relationship before God.”

“I don’t think God wanted to watch that.”

Jean shakes his head fondly,

“I mean: we are married now in the eyes of God. Bound forever as man and wife should be.”

Javert shifts, his brow brushing up under Jean’s jaw,

“Which one of us is the wife?”

“I don’t mind.”

“You cook and clean but I take the cock-”

“Don’t be silly,” Jean chuckles, squeezing Javert’s ribs before pinching and tickling him. Javert puffs and wriggles against him.

“We could both be husbands I suppose,” Jean says,

 “There’s no legal precedent for it. Although, I suppose you’ve never cared to follow the law.”

Jean chuckles again and they fall into a comfortable silence. Javert pushes himself suddenly up to his elbows, squinting down at Jean in the dark.

“I was going to ask you to marry me, you know?”

Jean blinks,

“When?”

“In Montreuil about three weeks after we started courting, I think.”

Jean blinks again and then he laughs, wrapping Javert in his arms and dragging him down against him, kissing him thoroughly. Javert pulls back, wide-eyed and ravished,

“What?”

“I can’t believe you. That little time?”

“It might have been less,” Javert grumbles, flushed. Then he pauses, brows furrowing, “wait a moment,”

He climbs out of bed, all long-legged and bony in the darkness, and hurries over to a cabinet pulling out a black case and opening it. He rifles through it, grunting with annoyance to himself,

“I know it must be in here somewhere. I wouldn’t have lost it-”

“What-”

“Ah-ha!” Javert barks, “I found it! It had fallen down in the lining.”

He stands and strides triumphant to climb back into bed, squirreling under the covers and tucking his body back up against Jean’s side.

“Here,” he says, smug, offering Jean a small, thin black box. Jean blinks at it as Javert looks down at him, propped up on one elbow at his side.

“What is it?”

“Your engagement present. Open it.”

Jean turns it until he finds the crease and cracks open the case. Inside is a fine black pen of good quality. He smiles,

“A pen.”

“Engraved,” Javert insists, “take it out. I bought it for you in M-sur-M.”

With a careful hand Jean takes it out and turns the pen until the firelight alights on the engraving. He smiles, slow and wide until he can’t keep his teeth behind his lips and then he turns and captures Javert’s lips with his own, pulling him down to squeeze him against his body. He can feel Javert’s grin against his chest. His heart aches with love. All these years! Chin resting on the top of Javert’s head, he lifts the pen again to the firelight, turning it to reveal the neat engraving:

 

                                                                    Yours, Monsieur’s Dog

  

 

 

 

 

       

 

Thank you for joining me on this very long and winding journey. I hope you are satisfied by the ending :) Feels very strange saying goodbye to this fic!