Title: the sky's open wide
Work ID: 46121050
Author: wolfwithpanthereyes
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Mythical Beings & Creatures, Post-Canon, Post-Seine, Established Relationship, Alternate Universe - Merpeople, Alternate Universe - Werewolf, Fluff, Fluff without Plot, No Plot/Plotless
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
The worst are the nights when Javert itches to run.

Work text:

The worst are the nights when Javert itches to run.

He can control himself in Paris. He can keep to his room, keep to the shadowed alleys if necessary and pass himself off as an oversized dog. The thieves of the night are easily deterred by a snarl and glinting fangs.

But running in the streets? Impossible. The mere temptation is unbearable to consider. The dogcatcher looms, and soldiers march after the barricades with guns loaded and in hand. No, Javert cannot allow himself the privilege. He’ll keep to sprinting laps around the Rue Plumet garden, wearing himself out from vertigo and stubbornness before he allows himself the weakness.

Valjean attempts to share in Javert’s frustration - after all, there is even less water for a merman to spread his tail without fear of identification - but that is reason enough for a lack of understanding. Aside from the Seine (and oh, Javert will not think of the Seine, not if he wants to avoid that tremour down his spine and the cough in his lungs which still threatens to overwhelm him at times), there is simply no space for Valjean to go.

Javert, on the other hand, knows there is space for him on four paws. Cobbles and grit and dirt alike have been pounded beneath his boots and he can only imagine what if would feel like to sprint over with pawpads bared.

He fears he is becoming restless. Valjean encircles his waist one morning in the privacy of their kitchen, and Javert snaps blunt teeth at him without thought. He purchases tomatoes at the market and when one slips from the seller’s hold, Javert has to grip the stall until the wood splits under his nails to prevent himself from falling onto all fours.

He would be fooling himself if this escapes Valjean’s notice.

“I have booked us a coach,” Valjean says one day, as casually as if asking Javert’s opinion on breakfast.

A holiday. Frivolous.

Javert cannot bring himself to object.

As the coach carries them to the country, he has to hold back the metaphorical wag of his tail. He wonders if Valjean can sense it anyhow, with the way the old man smiles knowingly at him. Javert had never known a merfolk before Valjean, and Valjean has never been too revealing in the extent of his own supernatural abilities.

There is a cottage, a bare hut more than anything, and it is set a good three miles from the nearest village, and there is a deep clear river swirling beside, and a forest floor coated in moss and pine needles. The coach is out of sight but for a moment before Javert allows himself to transform, fur prickling from his skin like a waterfall even as his clothes fall from him.

He has left Valjean with their trunks but, as his paws finally, finally, tear over the earth, he cannot bring himself to care.

He does not know how long he runs, but when he returns to the cottage the sky is shot through with the rosy-pinked clouds of a country twilight. He stops for a moment, tongue lolling haphazardly from his mouth, and digs his claws deep into the dirt as he allows himself a delightful full-body stretch before trotting towards Valjean.

Like Javert, Valjean has shed his clothes and rests back on his elbows, everything below his chest submerged in the swirl of river. There’s a slight curl through the current, the end of Valjean’s tail as he slowly swishes it forward and back. Later, perhaps tomorrow, Javert will take the time to worship this part of Valjean he rarely sees. For now, he bows his head and allows Valjean to smooth a hand over his head, scratch behind one of his ears in the way that shoots straight down Javert’s spine to a hind leg.

“Better?” Valjean says gently.

Javert cannot speak in this form, so instead he huffs and settles onto his belly, muzzle tucked neatly on his forepaws. Better.



Together they watch the moon rise.

