Title: To Trust a Liar
Work ID: 46144912
Author: Xythia
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Past Trial of Arras, Alternative Universe - Dragons, Dragon shifter, Unreliable Narrator, Everyone Has Issues, canon level issues and triggers, messed up characters
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 4/4

Summary:
Nobody has ever accused Javert of being diplomatic - or a creative thinker. Drawn, and he knew who to blame, into a situation where both are required, he needs to expand his horizons, with a bit of help from a disreputable resource—an annoying, headache-inducing one.

Work text:


Episode 2:


 


Leaving the barracks after a few hours of restless sleep, Javert’s feet nearly automatically led him up the inner ramparts and then down a few flights of stone stairs instead of using the inner courts. He found himself near one of his favorite old haunts, the highest guard tower, before shaking himself out of his reverie and turning his feet westward. The slight trip down memory lane had at least made avoiding off-duty personnel in search of fresh gossip much easier. It was still dark, half past four in the morning, and the guards on the walls were busy preparing for a change of shifts.



The western quay was currently unused, awaiting the arrival of the next ship in need of repairs. It was situated within the observation radius of two guard towers; still within the wider prison complex but away from too many curious eyes and the chain gangs' current work areas. It was partially roofed over, a huge structure that was used to assemble ship parts, and it now had the dubious pleasure of serving as a temporary dragon prison.



“Inspector!” 



“Sir!” 



“You have to hurry to the west quay, the dragon-!” 



Three soldiers hailed him when Javert entered the quay area, running to him with their coattails flying. Their words made him speed up and run past them with a muttered curse. He had turned his back for a few hours, and Valjean was causing new problems.



The soldiers skidded to a stop and then scrambled to turn on their heels and keep up with him.



“Report!” Javert demanded while running. The pavement was uneven and he nearly stumbled over a crack, but it did not slow him down for long. An inspector had to be used to racing over unevenly cobbled streets and dirt paths. Only one guarded gate more, and he would turn into the west quay proper.



“Sir, the dragon, it will eat him!” panted one of the soldiers, and tried to reach for Javert’s elbow to make him stop for a moment and listen. Javert shook him off. If he hadn’t more to report than that it was better to hurry before Valjean really ate someone, stringy or not.



Soldiers were gathering in formation in front of the wharf building and some of them were rolling a cannon into position with more heavy artillery being readied further back. Due to the crush of bodies, it was hard to get a look at what was happening inside. They let him through easily enough however when they saw his tall figure and the top hat, so unlike their military coverings. After yesterday Javert doubted that even one military asset in Toulon had not heard about what happened and that Javert had been involved. Sometimes, rarely, gossip was beneficial.



When he reached the ‘stable’ he was confronted with a peculiar sight. Not in the same league as finding himself in the company of a dragon suddenly, but encountering Admiral Renault, the quartermaster, the master of chains, and two guards, in a heated conversation so far outside the administration complex, was not something he had expected to see. How long had it taken those soldiers to find Javert? 



Yesterday Commissaire Renault, when he had taken a few minutes out of his busy day to greet Javert on arrival, and later at the beach, had been a well-put-together figure emitting authority with his spit-spot boots, a crisp cravat and a no-nonsense attitude. But this morning he looked frazzled, with his hair no longer neatly combed back and his tricorne clutched in a gloved hand, the felt looking worse for wear.



“Sirs,” Javert called out to the officers and saluted, drawing their attention, “you’ve sent messengers to fetch me? I’ve heard there is a problem, how may I be of service?” More words were on the tip of Javert’s tongue but he swallowed them. He had placed a request for a confidential conversation with Renault with the admiral’s aide-de-camp, to inform him of some of the less publicly palpable details of yesterday’s misadventure. There had been no answer yet, however, and this did not look auspicious that there would be such an opportunity soon. One simply did not stroll up to an admiral and ask for a tête-à-tête!



“A problem, he says, oh so politely, hah!” the captain of the guards exclaimed angrily. “Bloody dragon has gone round the bend, that’s what. He’s in there mauling one of my men.” 



The other officers, Renault chief among them, watched the exchange. When the captain, becoming aware of his breach of protocol, bowed to apologize for speaking out of turn Renault waved at him to get on with it. “It’s your man in there, Capitaine l’Estang, go on, fill in the inspector. But remember, we’ll have to justify everything to the ministry. They will not react kindly to us harming the dragon without a compelling reason,” Renault warned and then concentrated on the master of chains, asking him something about creating custom-made shackles for the dragon.



The first thought that came to Javert’s mind was not a repeat of ‘how typical, damn you Valjean,’ but rather, why was there a guard even in the building? Which was a good question to start with. “That is concerning, no doubt, but might I know why the guard did go in there? The orders were for guarding the opening and letting the dragon and his new nest alone.” Which had been agreed upon by all, the captain included, as only sensible.



“I don’t know and I don’t much care, maybe the dragon lured Corbeil inside. In an ideal world where wishes are horses I’d want that dragon rendered harmless, draped in chains, and my man back, alive, which I don’t think is possible, but alas. And that numbskull Goffinet-!” l’Estang spat out, half his attention on his soldiers.



Both names were familiar to Javert since they had been the two that accompanied him yesterday. But only Goffinet had been scheduled for guard duty last night. It took effort, but Javert refrained from staring over to the entrance instead of paying the captain the attention he was due. “And what is wrong with Goffinet?” 



“Mad as a March hare as well! Says it’s not the beast’s fault. Hah, as if.” Captain l’Estang pointed to the side and when Javert took a few steps to look around a group of soldiers inspecting their weapons, he saw a familiar fresh-faced guard being held in between two soldiers, his hands bound in front of him.



“May I speak with him, please?” Javert asked politely and ignored how the higher-ranked officer rolled his eyes. 



“What for?” l’Estang’s glare intensified as if he suspected Javert of being not quite there in the head as well. “I’d rather you speak with the dragon since you’re the only one who can understand the beast, but I thought you’d rather wait until the canons are in position before going in.”



Javert kept his face carefully neutral and his posture as correct as possible. “I do not want to enter negotiations to clear a hostage situation without getting all the information I can beforehand. Even if it is a false account. Better something than nothing.”



“Now that I can understand. Go on, but be quick about it. We can’t fire without hitting our own man or bringing the building down on him.” An angry vein was pulsing on the captain’s forehead. “Directive to not harm that beast or not, this is outrageous. We just need someone to verify that our man is dead, the canons to be ready, and we’ll send that beast to Hades.”



If this was a case of hope for the best, plan for the worst, then the captain was obviously leaning toward the second and saw Javert’s intervention purely as a procedural necessity. In a contest of cannonball versus dragon the dragon and his defenseless eggs would lose.



With a precise salute Javert took his leave and hurried over to the miserable-looking young guard. Goffinet was staring at the pavement, his shoulders slumped, but when he heard fast footsteps approaching, he looked up. His mouth opened to a gormless 

Oh!

 when he saw the inspector.



“Sir! Thank God that you’re here. They don’t believe me, I tried to tell them but-”
The two men guarding him groaned in exasperation and one of them gave their detainee a slap to the back of his head, hard enough to make Goffinet jerk forward. “Be silent until addressed!” the taller soldier ordered sharply.



“Gentlemen, thank you for your diligence, but I do want to speak with Assistant Guard Goffinet and get his verbal recounting of what he has seen.”



A pointed glare from the inspector, and the trembling heap of misery between them began to resume speaking. “I thought I saw something at the other side of the entry to the building. You know, a movement where there should be none.” When Javert did nothing more than nod at him, Goffinet’s voice got less tremulous. “I asked Noyers if he’d seen anything but he denied it.”



“Noyers, not Corbeil?” interrupted Javert, wanting to get a confirmation for the guard schedule. Sometimes, against the rules, guards switched without telling their superiors.



“No, Alain, Corbeil that is, had asked for the next shift and he said he twisted his ankle so he was granted additional downtime to recuperate. Noyers and me, we were stationed directly at the entryway, and five other guards further out.” Goffinet shook his head and tried to gesticulate with his hands but the shackles prevented anything but small movements. He swallowed hard, his Adam's apple bobbing up and down. “And then we heard the dragon roar; and I ran inside.”



Javert stared and held up a hand to order the man to stop talking. “You ran inside? I don’t know if I should congratulate you for your bravery or have you demoted for stupidity. Go, on what happened next.”



The two guards in charge of Goffinet didn’t look like they knew what to think of that either, they were gaping down at their detained colleague.



“Well, yes, if he’d wanted to eat us he’d have done so in that cave and you stepped in front of him that one time, Sir, and he did not hurt us at all, did he? I reckoned he wouldn’t now either without a reason, and I remembered that there was this shadow and - well, when I came in I saw the dragon pinning someone under him, roaring in his face and they were all near the nest! And then I ran out ‘cause I knew we needed you, Sir.”



Near the nest. Javert felt his hands ball to fists. “And the one being held down was Corbeil.”



Goffinet’s head nodded up and down quickly. “Yes, I am sure! Not that there was much to see, 'cause, you know, big dragon. But you can’t mistake Alain’s slicked hair for someone else's. He insists on doing it every morn, we’ve told him it looks stupid, it always stands up like a stiff flag with the slightest breeze when he removes his cover instead of staying down. And that’s what I saw, that plate of hair flapping ‘round.”



Since the guards had worn their covers yesterday Javert had no memories to verify, but details like this were often true because they stuck out in a witness’ recall. “And why are you being restrained?” Now came the second issue here and Javert observed the younger man’s reactions closely. Goffinet did not appear to be as mad as the captain had claimed.



“Because I, uh, yelled rather… loudly, repeatedly, that the dragon isn’t at fault and they should not hurt him and his babies?” Goffinet bit down on his lower lip and blinked up at the towering inspector pitifully.



Which had been regarded as siding with a dragon against his colleague, not a totally unreasonable conclusion. Javert opened his mouth to ask for a clearer description of the scene when a sudden loud noise made everyone duck and turn. There had been a distinct lack of dragon vocalization until now. But suddenly the air was split by a bestial roar, followed by less loud, but screeching, higher ones. Someone was being hurt and it was not a human. Before he could fully turn to sprint towards the building, and the thought of ‘now who’s acting foolish?’ mocked Javert, Goffinet raised his voice and called after him.



“Sir, I just remembered, Corbeil, he was lying on a canvas bag! It stuck out from under him!”



And canvas bags had certainly not been among the provided nesting materials. “Good man, thank you!” and Javert was off like a shot. He could deal with Goffinet’s predicament later, vouch for the man’s honesty if not sanity. But first, he had to prevent l’Estang from doing something they would all regret later. The angry captain would take the noise as a confirmation that force was the way to go. Javert pushed his way to the front through a group of soldiers who were hurrying to take their places among the formation.



“I’ll go in,” Javert shouted and darted forward to reach for the tarp that partially covered the entry, grimly thinking that this was what the captain had wanted him to do earlier, wasn’t it? Him going in and talking to the dragon. “Don’t shoot.”



“Is everyone insane here? Hold your fire!” That had been Renault’s voice. Hopefully nobody would be spooked enough or stupid enough to go against the commissaire’s orders.



The lamps had burned down since he had departed yesterday but the prisoner, in his current form, was too big to be overlooked; Goffinet hadn’t been wrong about that. Especially when poised with one wing raised with its pointed great claw turned downward towards the figure held down by the other wing, his tail thrashing so hard that it shook the building. Unfortunately Javert had no good line of sight around the dragon to the nest from where he was standing.



The floor nearest to the back wall was elevated and had a wooden covering, with a ramp attached to the side and lowered for access. The higher level had been chosen as the best available spot for the nest: out of the way, dry, and easily guarded.



“Valjean, you will bring the building down if you don’t stop.” Not the most likely thing to happen, these kinds of buildings were built sturdy enough, with stone for the lower walls and wood above. But it was worth mentioning, if only to calm the dragon and reduce the noise. “You don’t want anything falling on your eggs. Are all three all right?”



The giant head swung around sharply, first to the area higher up and behind the dragon where the nest was situated, then to the inspector slowly coming nearer. 

‘Javert! Yes, he did not get to them.’




This once Javert would not demand to be addressed correctly by the convict. “Is Corbeil alive?” It was hard to judge, the fleshy front section of the wing was pressing down and the membranes were mostly obscuring the man
underneath. A uniformed arm and a leg were visible, sticking out, but neither were currently moving or twitching.




‘The blood is all mine, not his! He tried to steal one of my eggs!’ 

The mental message was accompanied by another angry roar.



Blood? “It’s too dark in here.” Lighting a few lamps, if the dragon allowed it, would help but it would also give the soldiers outside the perfect tableau to aim and shoot. “I’m coming over to you, all right?” he said and made another step forward.



“Get it off me, off! Sir, it’s crushing me!” Corbeil began to howl and thrash, proving that he was indeed alive.



“Not enough to keep you from yelling, so it can’t be that bad,” sneered Javert. He was now close enough, and his eyes accustomed to the low lighting, that there was no mistaking that the guard was indeed lying on a sack. It was one of those big jute totes used to lug around dried beans when they were delivered to the jail.



“This is what we will do: Valjean, you will keep him down but alive. I will go back outside and report to the waiting officers so they don’t send all of us,” Javert put emphasis on that, “to Hades. Then I will return with two soldiers, without weapons, and they will arrest Corbeil. Any objections?”



“Arrest?!?” Corbeil’s thrashing increased. “You nuts? Shoot the beast! Whose side are you on, you damn flic?”



“I am on the side of the law!” Javert did not appreciate the accusation, not at all. “A law that will make you regret your actions. I did warn you about what happens to people who endanger a dragon’s young!”



The dragon objected to the plan as well. 

‘I want him away from my eggs! Why don’t you take him now? This rat isn’t a match for you. I won’t harm you, if that is your fear, while you are occupied with the bastard.’




“We need additional witnesses,” Javert said tightly, unwilling to elaborate for a convict. But Valjean should get the hint. Dishonorable behavior running rampant within the ranks, and the lack of respect for their written code of conduct, had been the main reasons why Javert had felt so fortunate when the opportunity for a transfer had been presented to him. This could easily develop into a case of ‘us’ versus ‘the convict dragon’ in the eyes of the prison administration, and feel like closing rank around one of their brethren, if he gave them enough room for misinterpretation. Javert might, at one time, have been one of their number, but he was an outsider now, and his word against one of their own might not be enough.




‘Oh. Then you might want to take the sword I relieved him of. I thought him subdued and he surprised me by pulling it and stabbing me. Not something a garde de chiourmes should carry around, you’ll agree. It landed somewhere over there.’

 The raised wing was used to point helpfully in the right direction and Javert stalked over. It did not take him long to find the weapon, which was, he noted angrily, glistening red along the blade. It wasn’t even a regular military sword. Similarly outdated swords and sabers decorated the hall inside the officer’s mess alongside paintings of famous admirals and their ships. If Javert was a betting man he would bet and not lose that one of them was now missing.



“I tried to do my duty because all of you are cowards!” howled Corbeil and his arm flailed some more.



“St. George you are not.” Holding the weapon out in front of him, Javert slowly walked outside and was greeted with tense silence and numerous rifles pointed at him.



“Hold fire, it’s Javert!” someone ordered. L’Estang and Renault were waiting for him behind the first line of defense.



“There is no need for force! Someone attacked the dragon and he was defending his nest, I repeat, there is no danger to the bagne at large,” shouted Javert and ignored the peculiar picture he must make, exiting a dragon’s lair with a bloody blade held in front of him.



“Is the dragon dead?” asked Renault, staring at the sword. It was not clear if the commissaire hoped or dreaded that outcome.



“No, and neither is the intruder. Apart from his abysmally ambiguous reporting skills, Goffinet was right, the dragon caught someone trying to steal his eggs, there is evidence in form of a bag the culprit had with him for transportation, and this sword. Neither is something Corbeil should have had.”



“Bugger me sideways,” cursed l’Estang and then stomped off to talk to the soldiers, telling them to relax their stances.



“I need two volunteers to retrieve Corbeil. He is violent and will resist arrest and I am needed to calm the dragon. Two courageous men of calm temperament would be best because they will need to go near the dragon.” Javert ignored the swearing. It was a higher officer’s privilege to use any words they wanted, even if they were unbecoming and crude enough to make any sailor blush. “We might need a corpsman later on. For both Corbeil and Valjean.”



“I will go with you, Sir,” one of the two soldiers standing behind the admiral, Javert had never seen before today, dared to insert. 



“Good Lord, Rivette,” moaned Renault, “this is not something out of 

Gulliver’s Travels

, but a real, bloody, fire-breathing dragon. But, on second thought,” he tilted his head speculatively, then nodded, “I trust you to not do something stupid. Go with the inspector, don’t get eaten, and report back. And take Goffinet with you as the second ah, volunteer. He does not have the good sense God gave a gnat, but he is already familiar with the dragon and has demonstrated his willingness to go inside, advisably or not.”



In short order, Javert was once again braving the lair of the beast, with support this time. The tableau hadn’t changed much while he had been gone and he ignored the exclamations of shock from the men following in his wake. Valjean had moved the wing that was immobilizing Corbeil enough for more of the intruder to be uncovered. Corbeil was either outstandingly brave or outstandingly dimwitted; another man would have passed out in fright instead of glaring up at angry, fiery death staring down at him.



“Let’s remove the intruder.” After a moment of considering his options, Javert thought it best to take up position near the shoulder of the dragon on the side near the nest. From there he squatted down to get a better view of Corbeil. “I won’t let anyone past, all right?” he directed up at Valjean. “And on my command, you will lighten your grip, and Rivette and Goffinet will drag the idiot outside.”



“Idiot?!? Who are you calling names here, you son of a bitch?” Corbeil followed that barrage by spitting at the inspector. “Just because I have more cojones than any of you; do you know what is behind you? A fortune just waiting to be made! One shard of dragon eggshell is worth more than either of us will ever earn.”



Javert tried to live by the principle that it was impossible to offend with the truth. His mother had been a bitch, no way around it, and the glob of spit had - impotently, one might say - landed far from where it had been aimed at. 



“What I know,” the inspector said slowly, deliberately not looking in the direction of the nest and the glowing little lives inside, “is that you should be eternally grateful that the prisoner has demonstrated more self-restraint in the last half hour than I ever thought him capable of exercising. Despite ample provocation he has not torn you apart slowly and then set on fire what was left. Yet.”




‘Don’t give me ideas. Please get him out before my patience does run out.’ 

And from the way the wing muscles were bunching, it wasn’t an empty threat.



“Oh, you might not get that chance, but when this attempt is reported to the weyrs-” Javert smiled meanly. 



Corbeil began to increase his thrashing, fueled by panic. “You can’t do that, you can’t! Handing me over to the bloody beasts. It’s just eggs, man, damn you, no!”



“Rivette, Goffinet, each of you to one of this scum masquerading as a guard’s shoulders. Drag him outside but don’t injure him more than he already is. We don’t want to dirty our hands.” There was also no point in listening to scum, was there? They did not deserve an audience for their filth.




‘Not getting dirty, literally, might be impossible because he just soiled himself.’ 

For a man that was all about forgiveness and second chances, Valjean sounded very satisfied. And disgusted.



Soon after, and after Javert informed his two helpers about avoiding the mess, Valjean lifted his wing up and revealed a somewhat ruffled Corbeil sprawled on the wooden floor. Corbeil was red in the face and wheezing, but before he could do anything he was none too gently grabbed upward. Valjean’s blood decorated him freely, and his clothes were in disarray but not too badly torn. The likelihood of a few cracked ribs and contusions was high, but nobody but Corbeil could be bothered to care. Insults and pleas blubbered from his mouth but his complaints were summarily ignored.



Rivette adjusted his grip on Corbeil’s arm and after some struggling the man was clapped in irons and ready for removal. Both young guards’ eyes kept darting to the nest and the eggs, whose luminescence was visible in the darkness of the room. The blanket that had covered them had slipped off. Javert hoped dearly that that was due to something Valjean had done, and not that the intruder had managed to get that far.



“Inspector, we will make sure that everyone knows what this 

infanticide

 tried to do. You should stay here with them as an additional guard, we will bring back water. And maybe bandages? There’s no reason for him to have to keep smelling this fucktard.” Again Rivette seemed to be unable to look away from the nest for long. “They are so… beautiful. They glow with life, how could he even think about-” the rest of that sentence he swallowed, thankfully.



Neither Valjean nor Javert needed the reminder, and the inspector, who did not go to Church unless fulfilling the obligatory attendance duties of a policeman, promised to light a fine wax candle in thanks and to find out which saint was responsible for protecting children. If Valjean hadn’t been as vigilant as he was, or had been sleeping too deeply due to exhaustion - no, the possible results didn’t bear thinking about.



“I do have to report to our superiors in person first, I cannot stay here without permission, but I will ask to be on permanent duty until the dragon delegation takes them into their custody.” Javert had never been so unhappy about following protocol. 



This building had been selected with a dragon in mind, not possible intruders, and now he was uncomfortably aware of how it lacked operational security. The openings in the rafters and between the trammels up high where the wall ended and the woodwork began were not big enough for a dragon to slip past, but some industrious human lowlife could use them. Just because Corbeil had been brazen enough to use the bloody front entrance - and Javert would insist on the inattentive guard being questioned - did not mean anyone else would try the same way. Leaving their prisoner alone in here should never have happened, no matter how unwilling the humans had been to share space with their dragon charge.



“How deep are your wounds?” he asked Valjean.




‘Healing fast, do not worry. You said it yourself, ordinary wounds do not bother a dragon for long. Please go and make sure that this does not happen again.’




“That’s what I planned, no need to remind me,” said Javert, picking up the jute bag and then leaving the building in front of the others.



They handed over a still protesting Corbeil to be locked up under the intense scrutiny of everyone standing around. Javert's report to Renault and his coterie of officers was succinct, the matter was clear and needed few words. What he did not even try to curtail was the way the younger guards, now free from their task with Corbeil in custody, were making their rounds and telling everyone about what had happened, in detail. Including waxing rhapsodic about young dragonets in their shells. While it would encourage some to try and get a glimpse themselves, and would raise interest in why exactly Corbeil had taken the risk and tried to abduct one, it also got the word out that the dragon was not a mindless brute. And that the eggs in question were not dead or unfeeling objects to be exploited.



“We will need to feed him sometime soon,” added Javert, as neutrally as possible, after his report was finished and discussed, and looked at the Quartermaster as the one who would have to deal with this simple fact of life. “Giving birth seems to have been rough on him on top of his generally poor condition, and he was injured by Corbeil.” 



The hope that his superiors had already accounted for this need was strong, but going by how every officer started to mutter and curse, Javert had managed to put his foot in, again. He had only wanted to save everyone the time and bother of organizing another meeting. All of them had better things to do, surely?



“Has he demanded sustenance?” asked Renault after the cursing had died down.



“No, he has not,” answered Javert. And he likely would not on his own. Valjean was more the type to suffer silently until saying something became unavoidable. “But I doubt dragons live off air, not the way his ribs are sticking out. I do not know how long the prisoner will stay mobile without sustenance.” 



“Ask him! And let’s hope that the answer is something we can deal with, but I doubt it. You are still the only one able to directly communicate with the prisoner. I do not know where to get enough provisions to feed him and the regular inmates both!” said the quartermaster. 



Renault threw up his hands as well, in his case not only figuratively, then carefully placed his tricorn on his head and righted the fit of his uniform coat. “It is not as if I have a lot of options. I do not have the resources to feed him either; the mayor has informed me already that the season for rendering livestock has passed and nobody will agree to sell us cattle or even one measly sheep, even if I had the means to pay for it in my budget. The rumors of a dragon being in our custody have reached 

everyone

! But never mind, you seem to be the only one who can make him obey and seem to be willing to deal with him, aren’t you, monsieur l’Inspecteur?”



No, the commissaire was not happy with anyone this morning. And for some unfathomable reason, it seemed he somehow blamed Javert for doing his duty. 



“He is your problem now, I will sign the necessary documents. And then I’ll have to send word to Paris that we now have to hand over a guard for the attempted murder of an unborn dragon. Joy. Just… deal with this, use your best judgment, and for God’s sake, no more bloody need to drag me out of my bed and alert all of Toulon.” And with that pronouncement Renault turned and strode away with the master of chains and the quartermaster following in his wake, leaving behind guards that didn’t want to meet Javert’s frozen face.



The new guard, Rivette, broke the silence and cleared his throat. “I fear that the commissaire has had some… difficult days. It is said that the admiralty is on his case for acting negligently and endangering the Treaty of Arras. Someone brought up, additionally, that it can’t be a coincidence that Valjean was sentenced at the same town where the most important summit and the final cease-fire between dragons and humans took place.”



“You seem to be very well informed. But I don’t see the problem with Arras. It was simply the court that dealt with crimes in the region, nothing more, nothing less.” Trust Valjean to be the cause of a potential national crisis. “Your full name and rank?”



“Corporal Raphael Rivette, at your service! I’ve been seconded to your command until further notice,” he saluted sharply. “Before all this happened, even, the commander simply did not have time to tell you.”



“Bonjour. Please relax.” Rivette’s form was excellent, his styled beard well kept and he seemed eager to serve and had done well with Corbeil’s arrest. He would serve well, even if the command in question consisted of the inspector, and now one soldier. Goffinet was another option to bolster the ranks, he seemed to be involved a lot anyway, but Javert would have to inquire. He did need more reliable men he could trust to close the security holes.



“Handing over a half-starved dragon will not endear us to the delegation, nor will a lack of basic sustenance aid in his recovery.” And now the fault for not finding a solution would be officially and firmly Javert’s, he realized, and felt his teeth grind against each other. So much for a chance at promotion and a transfer to Paris. “And it is one of our most basic responsibilities to feed a prisoner under our care.”



Not that the grub served to convicts, a mix of weak bean soup and stale bread supplemented by cheap watered-down wine, could be considered proper nourishment. It was just enough to keep those poor bastards upright and able to work. 



“Even if I could convince the quartermaster to part with some of his stock on hand, would a dragon be able to digest it?” he mused and the soldiers shrugged their shoulders. As much as it pained Javert to do so, Valjean might know more about his body's needs than he did, so why not ask him directly?



“You two,” he addressed two of the soldiers who had remained loosely grouped around Javert, Rivette, and Goffinet, and who were not busy with the cleanup of weapons, “guard the entrance, properly this time, and prevent everyone from doing anything else ill-advised out here. I’ll go inside, Goffinet and Rivette, with me,” Javert ordered. 



On their arrival yesterday the waiting prison personnel had offered hastily compiled old tarps, more horse blankets, and even one battered duvet, to construct a better nest. Javert had been asked to convey Valjean’s sincere gratitude before the dragon had busied himself with arranging everything to his satisfaction. Today the mood was far darker, after the ordeal dragon and eggs had been through before the sun had even risen. The eggs were covered up again and Valjean was crouching near them, his demeanor unhappy and watchful.



The two guards were respectfully staying three steps behind Javert. “First things first. Do I need to take a look at the cuts Corbeil inflicted?” Javert asked as soon as he knew he had the dragon’s full attention.




‘No, they will heal,’ 

came the monotone answer.



“No doubt. But will they heal cleanly?” Javert began to light lanterns, now that the danger was over, and refilled the ones that had burned low with new oil.




‘Why do you suddenly care? It isn’t as if a few more scars will stand out on my body.’




“I care,” Javert began and rubbed his hands to get rid of dust and oil, telling himself that Valjean was understandably overwrought, “because these wounds, unlike the marks of just punishment and lackwit adventures, are neither your fault nor should they be ignored. I have never ignored open wounds

 of any kind 

and will not start now. Would a good meal help?”




‘It would theoretically; practically, you don’t have anything to feed me, as we both know and have heard.’




“I know you are upset, and I have to apologize on behalf of the administration for not providing enough security. I have been tasked with your care officially and I will not neglect my duty. But you have to work with me. Pouting is not helpful,” Javert lectured.



Valjean sighed but then nodded. 

‘As you wish.’




“All right. Feeding you is first on the list of problems to solve. Any helpful ideas? A solution that is preferably something that does not include pissing off more people? Besides myself and it seems all of Toulon?” asked Javert bitingly.



“Maybe you shouldn’t be too hard on the guy? He did save your life yesterday?” Goffinet dared to bring up.



And that was one incident Javert had done his best not to contemplate too closely. “Because you were not doing your duty and let go of the security rope, otherwise no intervention would have been needed.” Rescued by a convicted felon, oh the indignity.




‘I was surprised hearing your voice and recognizing you, so much so that I nearly did not react fast enough. I believed you to be on the other side of the country in Montreuil. Anyway, I hoped you would provide help without recognizing me and then search elsewhere; but as soon as you spotted the red smock I knew you would guess my identity.’ 

Valjean finally joined the conversation with more than a few words.



“Then you should have let me fall to my death! It would have served you better.” And with his colleagues’ - it could not be denied - less than developed investigational prowess, Valjean’s chances of getting away cleanly would have been substantial.




‘Next you will accuse me of causing your fall!’




Now that was adding insult to injury. “I have never twisted facts to suit my personal opinion in my career!”




‘Oh, is that so? Then why was I convicted of being the leader of a band of marauding cutthroats? Among other ridiculous accusations. So forgive me for not trusting you to not make matters worse for me.’




Well, yes, there was that. “And I did protest when I read about the list of accusations, but my arguments fell on deaf ears.”




‘Who is the bigger thief? The one stealing a piece of bread or the one stealing ten thousands of francs? But last I’ve heard those who profited from my fall are merrily spending their unearned loot instead of getting arrested.’




“You are well informed considering your confinement.” It was not that Javert had not wanted to arrest Bamatabois and his cronies, but that he had not been allowed to. And yes, it rankled a lot. If he had done what his instincts and sense of justice had dictated, any arrests would not have stuck for long, Javert had been told in no uncertain terms.




‘Gossip is one of the few readily available and free entertainments in the bagne and there are enough newcomers and even visitors who took great delight in gawking at me and gleefully telling me about what became of my factory and my fortune,’

 Valjean said, his dragonish features conveying unhappiness and anger. 

‘So tell me, 

dear inspector,

 when can I expect your precious justice to run its course and deliver those thieves to my former chain gang, or the next one over? Because mine is filled to near capacity at the moment and has only one vacancy.’




“You were convicted for breaking your parole and for fraud, not for your original crime,” Javert stated tightly. “The additional crimes on your record have not altered the extent of your punishment and there was no proof that you did not do what they accused you of.”



Valjean chuckled but it was devoid of any joy. ‘

No, but their addition - and especially making it seem like my fortune was ill-gained beyond the false name I used - made it possible for them to confiscate everything. But your words about proof or lack thereof means you investigated?’




“Of course I did!” And, according to his superiors, M. Gisquet and his patron M. Chabouillet, it would take solid, unshakable proof and the witness statements of informants of exceptionally good standing to open an investigation into those who divided up the spoils of Madeleine’s possessions.




‘That is something, at least.’

 The big head sank down and a deep sigh escaped. 

‘And if it makes you feel better, you repaid me, life for life thrice over, so you do not have to feel like you owe a convict anything. If anything, it is the other way around.’




Yes, Javet should accept that convenient 

quid pro quo

, but it felt wrong. Those eggs, as strange as they were, were innocent and not bargaining chips.



“Huh, you do know him pretty well, don’t you, inspector?” came an unwelcome intrusion in the form of Rivette inserting himself where he was not wanted. Nevertheless, Javert answered, it would not do to let misconceptions stand.



“I was a guard at this prison for twelve years while he was an inmate. I worked in the same city as him for years and he was the mayor, I was his Chef de Police. No matter his fraudulent installment to the office, we did have to interact on occasion.”



“And you were the one to arrest him,” added Goffinet, maybe encouraged by the lack of negative reaction to the other soldier’s question. “That’s what I heard.”



“Indeed. But let us concentrate on the matters at hand. How to fill one giant, empty stomach.” Javert’s own innards cramped in sympathy, he had not taken the time to go to the commissionary yesternight and the provisions his landlady had handed to him when he left Montreuil had long been eaten.



“Even if I could convince one of the farmers to sell me an animal, I do not have the money to pay them.” A well-fed cow could cost over one hundred francs, an astronomical sum when compared to the savings of a simple police inspector.




‘I have a solution but you will not like it.’




“What else is new?” sighed Javert and took off his top hat. “Let’s hear it.”




‘If you give me your word to guard my eggs with your life in my absence-’




Absence? Surely not! Javert opened his mouth, ready to protest.




‘- I will catch my own food. Fish, not livestock, before you begin to chastise me. There is enough power in me to do so, and if you allow this, nobody has to suffer so I don’t go hungry.’




“Fish,” the beleaguered inspector repeated deadpan. 




‘Wriggly, water-dwelling creatures with scales and fins. They come in many forms and some of them are delicious, much preferable to meat, and in fact a staple of a dragon’s diet. One reason why I settled in Montreuil-sur-Mer was the relative vicinity of the ocean.’




“I know what fish are! What I have trouble with is letting you loose without supervision and trusting you to return.”



The dragon hummed and shrugged his enormous shoulders, making the scales shift with the motion. 

‘I could theoretically carry you on my back, if you were not needed to guard the eggs, but we do not have a saddle that would fit me - and you would only accuse me of trying to drown you, because I might need to dive under the surface. But as long as I have my babies waiting I will return, trust me that far. I do not want to leave them even for a minute but I will be useless to everyone, them included, if I grow too weak to move.’




The possibility of experiencing the world from a dragon’s back, higher in the air than even the tallest church tower, was thrilling. And since Valjean could have flown away yesterday anytime, and would have faced less opposition than in the middle of a military fortification, letting him out may not be the insanity it appeared at first thought. And his show of restraint against Corbeil was encouraging as well.



There were no other options available.



“Very well. Wait for my signal. It will go better for all involved if I inform everyone outside that it is not another escape attempt.”




‘I appreciate it. At your command then, monsieur.’ 

Valjean turned around and busied himself with pushing the covers of the nest in a configuration that made sense to only him, crooning to the eggs.



“This is by far the strangest assignment I have ever had,” commented Goffinet, blithely ignorant that at his young age he could hardly have points of comparison. “Kind of sweet, isn’t he?”



Dear Lord, was this Bedlam? ‘Sweet’ and a mass of muscles, scales, sharp inbuilt weapons, and the ability to fly simply did not go together. Something in his expression must have given away his thoughts because Goffinet blushed furiously. Before leaving the building the inspector took another long, considering look at his nemesis. No, sweet wasn’t the word he would use, but there was something endearingly tender about the way Valjean acted around the eggs.



Javert shook himself and then went to try and find the officer responsible for the guards outside and explain to the man why they would not be required to fire on their dragon prisoner when he flew away. That might take some time to accomplish. No, who was he kidding, that might end with Javert restrained like Goffinet had been for going around the bend.



And he could not blame them. If someone had told Javert last week that he would be the one to request that Valjean should be let past the prison wall unaccompanied and uncontested, he would have thought them insane as well.


 


TBC





(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Convincing the shift leader to accept that the dragon was only flying away to go fish had been less problematic than Javert had expected. The officer had seemed mainly to be relieved that neither he nor his men would have to tangle with a dragon. 



The ability to be patient was not something Javert had been born with. It was hard won, and the hours following Valjean’s departure tested his resolve. He kept his word to the letter, always having an eye on the nest and patrolling the inside of the building ceaselessly. That it would be his head on the block if the dragon was not here when the delegation arrived was understood by all. With Rivette stationed at the ramp up to the nest, Goffinet had appointed himself lookout and regularly reported the lack of an approaching dragon.



Until Goffinet came back at a breakneck pace, waving his arms and shouting for Javert to come outside. “You have to see it to believe it!” he hollered and turned around again.



It couldn’t be anything too bad, by the way he was beaming. Javert instructed Rivette to stay on guard and hurried after the young man. There was no need for Goffinet to give directions, Javert arrived in time to see Valjean swerving above them in a tight curve near the southwestern watchtower, his wings extended fully and stiff in a controlled descent that had him touching down on the quay without much of a bump. What had Goffinet so excited was not the dragon per se, but the thing he was carrying in his talons, something that was tossed down just before Valjean landed, to avoid it being crushed.



When Valjean had promised fish, a specimen that was a quarter the size of the dragon had 

not

 been what Javert had imagined. The specimen was a dull, scarred grey and had teeth that rivaled the dragon’s, only smaller.



“A shark?!? Valjean, you demonstrated your propensity for brawling often enough, but did you have to pick a fight with that monster?” He expected to hear some tall tale of Valjean having to save an old fisherman, and seizing the opportunity in addition to a good deed, but the dragon just positioned his catch neatly in front of the inspector’s boots.




‘Sharks are delicious and it never saw me coming, I severed its spine with my talons before it had a chance to react. Do not worry, I have done so successfully in the past more than once. Now a whale, those I would not try to hunt down.’




“Don’t tell me they are stringy as well.”




‘They are oily and make me sick. My babies, I sense, are in good condition, thank you for your diligence. I will roast this beast, I gutted it in the air already, and sharks don’t have scales to complicate things,’ 

said Valjean matter of factly, and then pulled the shark by the tail to a section of the pavement that had sunken slightly in before taking a deep breath and, as promised, releasing a tight stream of orange flames.



Javert was well aware that the number of personnel trying to get a better look at the newest spectacle was growing, and he shook his head in exasperation. Hopefully the officers on duty were competent enough to prevent all of Toulon from converging on them to gape.



Preparing the fish and talking to the inspector were not mutually exclusive activities. The roasting did indeed seem to be something Valjean had experience with, supporting his boast of having won against a shark in the past. His flame engulfed the fish one tightly measured section after the other, making the shark’s skin blister and darken and a mouth-watering scent rise.




‘I thought you might appreciate me selecting a big enough fish so I don’t have to repeat such an outing in the near future. There seems to be no way to do right in your eyes.’




Did the overgrown lizard sound dejected?



“If something happened to you - and I would likely never have found out that you underestimated a danger as opposed to bailing on me - I would have been the one left with your children and been fired on top of it,” Javert pointed out and crossed his arms in front of his chest.



For a beast of his size, Valjean ate delicately and neatly, slicing off thin sections of steaming meat and then flinging them into his mouth without making a mess. Still, it did not take a lot of time for the dragon to devour one side of the fish, turn it around, and then consume a sizable part of the rest, illustrating how near to starving Valjean had been. 




‘That might happen no matter what. Me not surviving, not you getting fired. I hope.’  




‘Excuse me?’




‘The weyr leaders will be deeply displeased because I exposed details of draconic culture we’d rather not have humans aware of - how we procreate. And draconic law is harsh. It depends on whether they can be convinced that it was unintended, and as a means to save my eggs. I want you to be prepared. Not that they will leave the eggs in your custody, but since it looks like you are the appointed diplomat, it would be better if you are not caught by surprise. You should eat something as well, I can hear your stomach growl from here. Do you want a piece of this?’ 




To Javert’s embarrassment, his stomach answered for him without permission. 




‘There is enough for both of us and then some. I don’t suppose I will be allowed to donate anything for the prisoners if the other guards don’t want what is left? I would hate having it go to waste,’ 

worried Valjean.



“No need to be concerned about that. Nobody here will turn down a free meal, and afterward they will have something to boast about at the tavern.” Javert and Valjean would have to talk about the upcoming meeting with the delegation, but not in front of all these witnesses.



“It will share?” asked one of the more courageous soldiers who had been near enough to eavesdrop.



“He, not it,” corrected the inspector once again. “And only for the ones in the vicinity or near enough to be handed a small portion without distracting them from their duties. The remaining shark is not big enough to feed the whole prison staff. If you would please fetch utensils and plates?” 



Intended or not, this stunt would help not only grow the legend of prisoner 24601 among the denizens of Toulon, but it would also create a lot of goodwill that might be needed shortly.



Someone eagerly pushed a battered but clean enough looking tin plate into Javert’s hands and he walked over to the waiting ‘cook’. He contemplated if he should retrieve his pocket knife and start cutting. Before Javert could act Valjean had used the sickle-shaped front wing claw like a saber to meticulously carve a piece out of the side of the beast and then let it slide onto the waiting plate.



“Thank you. If you are finished, let us retreat into the building; the others will manage without our assistance.” If Toulon had transformed into a circus and he had been assigned the role of predator tamer, by God, Javert would excel at it!




‘You are welcome!’




In their wake, the onlookers descended onto what was left of the shark.



“And while you managed to get rid of most of the dirt and worse you were covered in with your impromptu bath and shark-wrestling, you are now sporting a thin layer of salt. It would be prudent to hose you down to get rid of it if you are agreeable to such?” The saltwater had the benefit of preventing infection, one reason why it was used to clean a prisoner’s back after a beating, but it should have fulfilled that purpose by now.




‘I did not want to make more work for you but it does sting. But first I want to greet my eggs, they are eager to feel me near.’




“You can communicate with them similarly to how you speak to me?” Maybe Javert had some dragon ancestry hidden in his family tree and that was the reason for this ability. It would not surprise him at all, just another colorful and probably disreputable detail. He had deliberately concentrated mentally on things in their past that would make the con flinch and there had not been a reaction, thus confirming to a reasonable degree that this connection of projected thought was not, thankfully, a two-way street.



Valjean was busy cooing at the eggs, undoubtedly reassuring himself that each and every one of them had not acquired a scratch or been moved an inch in his absence, before he paid Javert any attention; only to scoff and frown.




‘Why aren’t you eating? Your meal has to be cold by now. '




“I am still breathlessly waiting for your answer. No need to mother-hen, pardon, dragon-hen me.” Javert leaned against a wooden pillar and finally pulled out his pocket knife to cut up his meal and pointedly nibbled on a small piece. It tasted… not bad.




‘There is no need to be sarcastic. And no, they are far too young to understand language but they are growing fast. They already emanate directed emotions and know when I am near. Since they’ve been… made healthy, I have known when they are unwell or content. It is not defined and hard to explain but with every hour the bond is getting stronger and the range of their emotions is getting more complex.’




Since no little beasties mentally demanded his attention, Javert guessed that it was something exclusively shared between bearer and eggs. “Interesting. A lot of human parents would envy you that sort of supervision potential. I’m nearly done and then I will fetch a broom for scrubbing, maybe a brush. Unless you will miraculously regain your ability to transform into bipedal form soon?”




‘I fear not, but I can bear these small inconveniences if a bath is too much of a hassle.’ 

Valjean squirmed as if to negate his own words. Or he was embarrassed to require such help.



“Have you ever heard me offer something I did not intend to follow through on? And have you always been such a disagreeable patient?” Javert emptied his plate; if he had been unobserved, he would have licked it clean instead of casually placing it on a crate so it could be carried to the kitchen later on. Some bread would have gone well as an aside. But he was now pleasantly full, that was the important part.




‘You are the last person that should throw stones! Might I remind you about the time when you got stabbed at the Golden Pig, and Dr. Lachat swore to me that he would not tend to you again unless you were on death’s door? And maybe not even then? You called him some very rude names, mountebank and sawbones being the least offensive of the collection. He even refused the substantial payment I offered for visiting you again!’




Javert could not let that stand uncontested. “He should be jailed for malpractice, 

non

, attempted murder! Laudanum at the strength he tried to pour down my gullet would have felled an ox.”




‘You were burning with fever! The good doctor assured me that he did not intend to use all of that bottle and only measured it incorrectly because you were making him nervous! He called me to your bedside when you booted him out, hoping that my status as your superior - don’t hiss, you know how I meant that! - would make you behave. I nearly had to hold you down so you would not return to your post instead of recuperating!’




Yes, and Javert had treated the mayor with icy politeness for weeks to make his displeasure for that interference known to all and sundry. “You had the gall to order me to stay home! And now it is your turn to act as the difficult patient? No, I don’t think so!”




‘If you insist,’

 sighed Valjean.



Washing a dragon went as smoothly and complication-free as the inspector had come to expect: not at all. The first serious argument had broken out when the aggravating, unreasonable and mule-headed pest named Jean Valjean categorically refused to be led to the nearest well. 




‘No,’ 

he said and hunkered down in the opening of the improvised shelter as if auditioning for the role of the proverbial unmovable object. 

‘That is much too far away from my nest.’




“Sharks don’t grow on stone walls, you had to fly much further out to find one than the distance to the well.” Javert tried to use logic but all it earned him was a baleful glare.




‘Yes, but you were here in my stead guarding the nest.’




Javert silently prayed for patience. “Then I’ll do so again and you will go with Rivette here. Hosing someone down is not that difficult.”



The corporal nodded happily. “Of course! Someone else will man the pump, I’ll aim the spout and we will return swiftly.”



But Valjean was shaking his head no. 

‘I don’t want to cause so many difficulties, truly, I don’t! I would never want to injure anyone, even less someone who is trying to help. But I don’t know this man from Adam, and he would have to get uncomfortably close to me, on top of my nervousness about being far from my eggs. He would end with a bite wound and that is not a desirable outcome.’




Understatement!


“What is he saying? He is saying something, by the way he is staring at you,” asked Rivette, his head turning back and forth between inspector and dragon.


There was no need to elaborate that volunteering for this might have ended with him as a chew toy for a nervous dragon. “We need a bucket brigade. Our prisoner does not trust his restraint to not give in to his instincts when too far away to guard his nest, or if being cleaned by a stranger, and I can’t split myself in two.”



“He fears we might harm his eggs? We would not do that!” Rivette stuttered and various men chimed in with their own reassurances, their expressions growing dark and insulted by the slight. “None of us are slackwits like Corbeil.”



“Nobody said you are, but we are not the only ones inhabiting these premises,” Javert said gravely, and loud enough to be easily heard by more than the corporal. He added a speaking look and a grimace in the direction of the salles housing the prisoners.



“You might say that he knows better than us how wily and unpredictable certain people can be, ending up where they are not allowed.”




‘I resent the implications. I only have to think back a few hours. We both know that more than that one guard would act on their greed, not just prisoners.’ 




It was an unexpected advantage that he was the only one that could understand what Valjean had said. The soldiers and guards who had been drawn back by the promise of more entertainment were whispering among each other, for now amused.



The attitude toward their dragon prisoner, at least in this part of the bagne, had changed from animosity and disdain to curious fascination and covetous benevolence after the reveal of what had really happened early this morning. None of them wanted to be tarred with the same brush as someone who was now considered the lowest of the low. And it wasn’t every day that a mere mortal could boast to interact with a ‘tame’ dragon. But the collective mood could just as easily swing back.



“That fish was very good.” They seemed to have selected a spokesperson. “All that’s left is the jaws, have you seen it?” The group moved and the speaker pointed to the slight hollow in the pavement that had doubled as a cooking pit. “Would he catch another one for us tomorrow? We wouldn’t mind schlepping a few buckets in exchange.”



The jawbones, lower and upper still attached with the multiple rows of teeth on display, held pride of place in the middle of the quay. Someone who had thought that he was funny had placed a cap jauntily on top. The spine and tailfin were nowhere to be seen.



“Why is that still there and not disposed of?” Javert asked slowly, feeling the pressure behind his forehead rise in the promise of a headache.



“Well,” the spokesperson slowly began to answer, not quite sure what seemed to be the problem. “One of the senior guards is a hunter and he said that it’s a genuine trophy and belongs to the one who killed it. It would be disrespectful to just throw it away or steal it.”



Javert opened his mouth, then closed it again. Offering a prisoner a collection of objects that didn’t even need to be sharpened was a supremely stupid idea. It was the beginning of an armed mass prison revolt. These men were too focused on the dragon to think of much else, it seemed.  



“I appreciate your thoughtfulness but I think it would be best if I confiscated it for now.” Before the excitement of the day ebbed, and practicality and opportunism struck, and most of those teeth found their way into various pockets. 



“Since Valjean has proven that he will follow orders I will allow him to catch himself another meal the day after tomorrow.” That seemed a reasonable timeframe. “I can’t promise that it will be another shark - or anything at all. Fish are not my area of expertise.”



That dry admittance earned him chuckles. “That’s all right, he won’t want to go hungry, no? He’ll do his best to catch something and share. Come on boys, the water won’t carry itself!” And off they went, slapping each other on the backs merrily.



“You,” Javert stalked over to the dragon, “are nothing but trouble!”



Behind him someone giggled.



Javert manfully ignored them and ushered the dragon into the building. He had Rivette send for brushes and soap, surely that would not be too much to ask for from the prison supplies, and then he had a dragon to scrub.



Javert was tempted to use a little more pressure than needed when he started swinging the long-handled scrub brush, but he restrained himself. They had relocated fully into the building, for the sake of both Javert’s and Valjean’s dignity, with the weather tarp that substituted as the front lowered for additional privacy. Rivette was busy directing the flow of buckets and happily bridging the last stretch in the bucket chain himself.



Due to its purpose as part of the shipyard, the building had a sunken section running along the middle where water could be let in and out, the amount controlled via a small floodgate. Currently that pit was empty and covered up with boards that were sturdy enough to carry heavy machinery - or Valjean’s weight. Any surplus bath water would be able to trickle through the cracks and flow back into the harbor instead of creating more of a mess.



Since he did not want to damage more of his wardrobe, or he would soon run out of clean and available uniform pieces, Javert was in his shirtsleeves, trousers, and boots, and all of those garments were soaked through in no time.



It was all monotonous: fetch, aim, empty a bucket, rub soap over bristles, rub vigorously over a dragon part of choice, rinse and repeat, until Javert was rewarded with a shivering wet but much cleaner looking Valjean. Water and suds searched their way downward in between scales. When the inspector was finally sure that he had fulfilled his task to his own exacting standards and put away his scrubber, he stepped closer, and ran a hand along a flank. It came away tinged pink. Not much, but enough to make Javert curse.



“Damn it Valjean!” He held up the hand accusingly. The sword cuts had already healed shut by the time they had started the bath and the inspector had, despite his aggressive crusade against dirt, thought that he had been mindful when cleaning. Not careful enough, apparently.




‘Just a damaged scale or two coming loose, it will fall off and a new one will grow in its place.’

 Green eyes blinked down at the wriggling fingers. 

‘I’m mostly cold and tired. But clean.’




“What would you normally do to deal with such, and is it still attached?”Javert could hardly believe that he was inquiring about what might amount to a dragon’s daily health regimen.




‘What do you think I’d do? I have only ever had my sister touch me in this form and help when something needed to be corrected. On my own, my options are not that numerous: remove the ones I can reach with my teeth or claws. And for the rest? I’m not a contortionist and I won’t go outside and wriggle on my back until something shakes loose to the amusement of the prison.’




Was Valjean embarrassed about the needs of his body exposing him to ridicule? From the way he turned his head and did not want to meet his gaze head-on in a challenge like he normally would, the answer was yes. Javert would have guessed that his long years in captivity had beaten the last vestiges of body consciousness and shame out of Valjean. But that was clearly not the case and even if it had been, that was no reason to treat him as an object. Such behavior would shame both of them, Valjean for having to endure it and Javert for exploiting a weakness.



This revelation made Javert uncomfortable. He had used the opportunity to assuage some of his curiosity in a need to understand this new reality and now he felt dirty. Not that he had prolonged cleaning some parts and ignored others, but still. Only a saint would not have been curious about certain things.



“I am sorry. I did not mean to shame you,” he offered, not sure how to even explain what he was thinking without making the embarrassment worse. “Would it help heal faster if the damaged scales were removed gently?” That was what his own experiences told him. It was better to remove a damaged nail or lance a wound and let it heal cleanly. It should be similar for scales.



Valjean shrugged his shoulders listlessly.



A brusque command would come more naturally but this was not what was needed. Javert closed his own eyes and gathered his patience. “Shall we try to correct some of the damage? Maybe with more detailed instructions, if you please. I don’t have anything else to do and I am not squeamish. Direct me to the problems you feel need it most. Or not.”




‘The sooner I am fully healthy again the better,

 non

? And the damaged scales are irritating. Thank you. Sometimes, when massaged with a brush, the damaged ones come loose more easily. You would have to climb up and around a bit,’

 Valjean warned.



“Not a problem, the stable master has sent over a collection of grooming devices.”



For some time only small, hesitant sighs of contentment could be heard, interrupted by squawks whenever Javert misjudged and pulled too harshly. It took half an hour. Valjean had once again,

 quelle surprise

, been economical with the truth and understated the problem. It went beyond one or two scales. Finally, he had reached the lower back and the last of what Valjean had, after prodding and scolding, deemed a bad enough problem to warrant Javert’s attention. It was a big scale that had nearly split down the middle and refused to budge, and Javert was deciding how to remove it, when a draconic thought not pertaining to what they were doing reached him.




‘Did I infer correctly earlier, you’ve been selected to spearhead the upcoming prisoner transfer?’




Javert scrambled around until he was straddling the spine the other way around for better purchase with his thighs, tried to pull with both of his hands, gave up for a bit after finding no success, and used the break to wipe his face on a clean handkerchief. “This should have been pried loose long ago, by now it seems to be nearly fused to its neighbor. And to answer your question, no need to dress it up fancily, the expression you are searching for is not ‘diplomat’, it is ‘convenient scapegoat’.”




‘Oh, I’ve been bothered by that spot since I’ve changed forms. It’s an old problem, but not as bad as you think, barely restricting my mobility in fact. Maybe pliers would help? And if you can’t pull it free it’s not worth too much fuss,’ 

Valjean explained. 

‘Until recently I’ve lived my life nearly exclusively in human form. A few beautiful hours in the air during cloudy nights when the chance of being seen was small was all I dared to risk and for those short stints it was a minor inconvenience. And I know what you will say, but what should I have done? Can you picture it? “Oh kind sir, I have an itch I can’t reach myself, would you be amiable to brushing me and then rubbing some oil all over me?”’ 




Javert choked and sputtered, spit having gone down the wrong pipe. “You did that on purpose, I nearly fell off!” But then hilarity beat exasperation and he laughed out loud, having to grab for a ridge to avoid tumbling down.




‘Ah, so you can laugh without the sound being used as a scourge, that’s a surprise. I thought you might think it prohibited by law to have fun. You imagined all those old fossils on the city council if they heard something like that, hm?’




“Yes, you reprobate!” Worse, for a second he had imagined himself in the role of the one propositioned. “If you said it to one of those swooning widows you might have gotten an enthusiastic affirmative response.”




‘Followed by disappointment and hysterical screaming when they would have been confronted with me being literal, thank you, but no!’




“I do know how to laugh, there is simply hardly any reason to do it,” said Javert. “But we’ve drifted from the more important parts of this conversation. Earlier you promised to enlighten me about what to expect concerning your brethren and how to successfully navigate a meeting with them. And you hinted that they will not look at you kindly, even apart from your status as a convicted criminal and the exposure of draconic secrets.”




‘You have a gift for homing in on sore spots.’ 

Valjean flattened himself against the floor before turning his head to peek at the human on his back. The feathery fur framing his jawline was standing up in spikes, still not dried completely. 

‘The issue is threefold. This will be a long explanation and I have to dredge up what I remember about my family to give you a frame of reference. It is not for sentimentality’s sake.’ 




Javert nodded and did not comment. He knew that his well-known disdain for tragic tales of woe was the reason that Valjean was dancing around the subject.




‘One of the rules my family insisted on was to not let anyone see our dragon forms, or rather, my form, because by then I was the only one among us. Poachers were one reason for this rule. Something that I did not take seriously as a lad, and I feel a sudden sympathy for my sister. I was often quite cross with her for not letting me roam as I wanted. The second reason was to hide from other dragons.





‘I have only seen a few other dragons, when I was young and learned to hunt in my dragon form. And I spoke to none of those strangers, nor sought them out, because I feared their reaction. No, don’t look at me like that, this is the truth. My family has strived to keep to ourselves for generations and avoid the attention of the weyrs, going so far as to not settle near the coast or high mountains.’




That was a typical Valjean explanation, causing more questions than it answered. “And, hence, so, therefore? Spit it out.”




‘Primevals are outcasts among dragonkin. My mother died when I was not fully grown, and I was the only one of my clutch that survived. She urged me never to show my form openly because other dragons would make our lives a lot more difficult. And according to her, they would have never left us alone and judged us harshly for the smallest transgression.’




“Is there an explanation as to why? Blood feud, an inherited disease that would kill other dragons, your ancestor stole the dragon crown jewels and your family has been hiding them instead of returning them to their owners?” The last guess was infused with more bite than the others.




‘None of the above, and I’ll have you know that there is no dragon royalty and thus no need for regalia worth stealing. But congratulations are in order all the same, you were right all these years when you said that I am a brute in need of containment, an unrepentant blight on society that can’t be trusted and that my character is bad to the bone!’ 

Valjean shook himself and then reared slowly, making Javert slide down and nimbly land on his feet.



“I wasn’t finished with my task,” Javert chastised mildly. For a self-proclaimed brute, Valjean was taking a lot of care not to injure him even though he was agitated, and that thought added to the slowly expanding understanding the inspector had of this man.



Valjean first looked longingly at the front of the building and the vista visible through the gaps between tarp and wooden beams, the beckoning hint of open skies above the ramparts, and then back to the nest, pointedly not looking at Javert.

 ‘With all that has been going on, I’d forgotten how much you disapprove of me until just now. Would you want to be touched by someone who holds you in contempt?’




“I can’t stand your irrepressible tendency to think yourself above the law. That’s not all you are, but unfortunately forms the basis for most of our interactions. Although I’ve found out recently that I do not know you as well as I thought,” Javert grudgingly admitted and then hesitated. 



He would not make a liar of himself! “And I resent the comparison. While I do think that everybody is born in sin and everybody has to pay their way - and yes, some have more of an inherent disadvantage - I would never kill someone for the family they were born to, and that is what you’ve been implying. In fact, I am rather insulted. If that was the truth I would have had to arrest myself for the circumstances of my birth the second after swearing my oath as a member of the police,” he added as a peace offering.



Valjean squirmed and then slowly crouched down again, still wary, then tilted his head. 

‘That’s about that conversation I seem to have forgotten?’




“Your attention was otherwise occupied. Let’s leave it at that, please. That scale still needs to be tended to, I hate leaving tasks half done. Besides, you haven’t finished your explanation.”




‘Very well.’

 One wing was offered as an impromptu stepstone.

 ‘I apologize for the insult, it does not seem to be a subject I can be rational about but I know you as a man of principles. I should have remembered and not let my temper rule my words.’




“And a man rotten to the core would not have saved my life yesterday.” Especially if the easier road would have been doing nothing. Javert took care to avoid stepping on the thin flight membrane, or whatever it was called and kept to the meaty parts of the wing while climbing. The thicker scales covering the front were good handholds, and he slowly returned to where he had left off. 



The only immediate response he got was a soft humming, and minutes passed while Javert settled down before Valjean resumed speaking.

 ‘I have to correct one of your conclusions, I did not mean to imply that other dragons would kill me on the spot, otherwise I would never risk them getting their claws on my eggs.





‘Being primeval is not a trait that breeds true necessarily. Or my mother would not have been so… negatively surprised when I broke out of my shell.’

 For a moment it had seemed as if Valjean had been tempted to use another word entirely. 




‘My sister was mother and father to me, loved me dearly and so did my nieces and nephews. I remember that much even though not many other details, and that has to suffice. But I am drifting again, apologies, you aren’t interested in another sad tale and more protestations.’




The echo of that prostitute seemed to keep laughing at him mockingly from the grave. Javert tugged hard on the unruly scale and was finally rewarded with a thin plate of horn, leaving behind an even, healthy-looking scale underneath and a pink crescent area where the damaged layer had been anchored. The next scale further up sank down to cover that small vulnerability.



‘O

ne of my hopes for my children is that they will not share my form. If they do, they will face adversity.’




“Hm. Not an unusual worry for a parent, I’d guess, minus the scales. Apropos, what should I do with this?” Javert held up the scratched-up sheet of horn.




‘I have no idea. It seems there is a market out there but I don’t think it would be the sort of trade we would want to encourage.’




“No, certainly not!” He shoved it into the grooming satchel, not sure what to do with it but unwilling to leave it lying around for some enterprising soul to find and abscond with. The other, smaller fragments, fruits of his earlier grooming efforts, would have to be collected as well.



That had been the last health issue, and the other scrapes Javert had spotted were comparatively minor. Climbing down might mean a break in the flow of information so he remained astride the dragon. The urge to do something instead of sitting still was overwhelming and Javert selected a brush with much softer but still stiff bristles than the scrubber he had used earlier from the collection of supplies in the satchel. In want of a better idea of how this was supposed to be done, he began to use it similarly to how he groomed Gymont when his gelding was tired and deserved a massage after a hard ride. Small circles, altering the pressure he used until some of the tension seemed to bleed out of the planes of muscles under him. Valjean sagged forward and sighed before continuing his tale.



‘

The weyrs want to keep the peace as much as humans do and are required by the treaty to deal with dragon matters that seep over into human society and contain the fallout. The best scenario I pray will come to pass is that they take me to one of the weyrs, and I might be allowed to raise my children under their strict supervision.’




That sounded like house arrest, not imprisonment for life. Javert stilled in his ministrations
. Pretty much everyone who had seen him in the pursuit of duty - unbending, heartless Inspector Javert! - would expect to see him hopping mad and ranting at the heavens at the prospect of a criminal slipping his grasp and their deserved, court-ordered punishment. And while it did sit wrong with him, very much so, that was not predominantly on his mind.



Instead of manacles in his pockets and the thrill of the hunt, he remembered the warm weight of the eggs in his hands and how the shells had been worryingly flexible in his grip as if even a little more pressure would be too much. Without discussing it Javert had been the one to make the necessary transfer from the basket to the new nest. All three of them had changed subtly since he had first seen them. For one thing, they were much cleaner, thanks to Javert, a soft cloth, and a bucket of warm, clean water. 



But the eggs themselves had changed and negated any leftover doubts that they were mere objects. The raised pattern of scales on the surface, different for every individual egg, had become more prominent and seemed to thicken, making the subtle glow restricted to the centers of those tiny scales, where they were thinnest.


“What is troubling to me on a personal basis is that you haven’t yet said anything about my future involvement in their lives. As if it is a foregone conclusion that there will be none. You might have forgotten that for all intents and purposes, you made me the other parent of those eggs. That makes them…. my offspring as well as yours. I have never shied away from responsibilities!”


The miserable scum masquerading as Javert’s parents had not given him anything but a name on his way, and that one seemed to have been an afterthought and incomplete. No, that was not correct, Javert sneered, they had been generous with baggage to overcome and examples of what not to do. But morals or common decency? Hah, his mother had used more curses than anything else to address her son. All his life he had strived to avoid following in any of their footsteps and by God, he would not start now!



Valjean huffed, unaware of the roiling memories his handler’s thoughts had turned to.

 ‘Your involvement is not a question of ability but legality, as blasphemous as that might sound coming out of my mouth. If I can’t raise them, you would be my choice before the weyrs but I have promised you not to involve you, and do not want to presume. And since they are draconic-




“They are subject to draconic, not human law. Understood. What about regular partners, there must be rules for custody and precedence. You knew it was possible, so there have to be others who had eggs together and who lost their… mate to death, cases where the human is the only parent left.” If there was one thing Javert understood, it was how the Law worked and that happily ever after for couples and their offspring only happened in fairy tales.




‘The parentage is always half dragon, half human, no exceptions. What humankind lacks in force they make up with numbers, and my ancestors wanted to hide. According to our legends, God was so displeased by dragons going against His design and seeking to change their forms to mirror the ones who hunted them relentlessly that He forced them to seek their mates from then on among their greatest enemies.’




“Humans are considered eternal punishment, handed down by God,” repeated Javert slowly. “That is something we should not advertise, it would spread like wildfire. We wouldn’t have to worry about breaking the Treaty, someone important would take offense and all hell would break loose.”




‘Must you always think in terms of punishment and crime? I don’t know if I should laugh or cry. Mates are considered a blessing,’

 moaned Valjean.

 ‘And those were never much discussed in my family. My mother mourned my father so much that we did not want to remind her of him in any way. You will have to ask the delegation about a custody agreement. I do not know any dragon lawyers and I don’t know where to search for them, they certainly aren’t listed by any newspaper I’ve ever read.’




And wasn’t that a pity because more and more it looked like a competent lawyer was exactly what they needed. Not that either of them had the funds to pay for expensive legal representation. 



“I’m in need of another change of clothes, I’m soapy and wet and I do not want to catch a cold. I will go to the barracks but I will return swiftly. Please try to remember more details in the meantime. I can be your ally in this but I need all the information, even if it seems inconsequential.” He shrugged into his greatcoat to brave the outside world.



The thought, reaching him just before Javert’s long strides could carry him out of sight, nearly made him stumble. 




‘Do you want to be their father, in more than name? Care for them?’




Well, that was the question, wasn’t it? Beyond duty, how much did he want to involve himself?



Javert left without answering.



The question about parenthood reminded Javert that there was a confidential conversation he had to arrange for. The sheer insanity he had found himself in the middle of had relegated reporting the finer details of what had happened in that cave to a minor detail instead of the main point of an inspector’s agenda. Another visit to Renault’s secretary was in order. Knowing when to expect the delegation would be nice too.



++++


 


The damn dragons were overdue. How long could it possibly take them to cross France? It took the Chaine about thirty days at snail’s pace to get from one end of the country to the other, and that was on foot! The nearest weyr to Toulon was, according to Valjean and the commissaire both, somewhere near Mont Viso.



Maybe they had to hold a summit or another, maybe a more distant weyr leader was the one who had the authority to make decisions regarding Valjean, but then they should have sent notice and not empty timeframes.



If there had only been something to do, something to prepare while waiting; but no. Valjean had exhausted his meager hoard of information. It did not matter how detailed and clever a question was asked when the one interrogated had honestly no idea or only vague and sometimes contradicting rumors about the possible answer. The less he had been able to help the more the con’s responses grew monosyllabic, until he had not done much at all but miserably huddle in one place and brood.



Javert shivered and tugged one of the blankets he was wrapped in up higher. He was sitting, quite unironically, between a rock and a hard place in the form of a nest and a dragon - and decisions to be made.



Outside the rain was pouring down in sheets, making it hard to distinguish between stones and sky, as if the building was floating on an ocean of grey. Suddenly, something heavy pressed down on him and pulled Javert, his heavy greatcoat and the blankets and all, sideways until he rested firmly against a pleasantly warm wall of scales and firm muscles. The wing remained where it was lying, warding off cold air.



Improved comfort level or not, Javert prepared to say something pointed and uncomplimentary about his person being handled so freely. But when he wriggled around enough to do so - a lecture lost a lot of its impact if mumbled into leathery skin instead of face-to-face - he saw that he could spare himself the trouble. The recipient was not in the mood to hear anything he said. Valjean had turned his attention fully back to the nest and its occupants. His enormous head was lying alongside the rim.



At first the inspector could not put his finger on what he was hearing, but then he recognized the rumbling and crooning for what it was: a lullaby. Valjean was singing to the babies inside the eggs, nosing them in turn, biggest to smallest only to begin again.



It was sad. And depressing; Javert cleared his throat, then again more loudly, poked the wing when that didn’t get him any attention either. “Is there something amiss?”



Valjean sighed and finished the song before answering. 

‘Nothing you can do anything about. This little one,’

 he rubbed his snout over the middle egg, the one that had darkened to a gleaming coal black, 

‘refuses to go to sleep. Her brothers are ready but she is cranky and thus nobody is getting any rest.’




“She,” Javert parroted. “A girl egg? And two boys? You can tell?”




‘A girl, yes. At least I am pretty sure. Something about her feels feminine. And feisty,’

 answered the dragon.



“Why am I not surprised that an offspring with you as the father is not doing what they are supposed to do?” Any child of Valjean promised to be a handful.




‘Then let’s hope that she isn’t going to be premature just to be contrary. Although-’

 he broke off.



“Although?” Javert prompted, not that he disagreed. Some things should not become family traditions, being born in jail was undoubtedly one.




‘I would not mind meeting her at least once outside her shell.’ 

The thought was so low-pitched that it was barely there.



Some of Valjean’s dark moods started to make sense. “You have been saying goodbye to your children for the last two days, haven’t you? Stop being maudlin! Don’t tell me that I am witness to the indomitable Jean the Jack, the hard-nosed prisoner who survived nineteen years in jail, giving up?”




‘Every second with them is a gift. All I ever wanted was to return to my family, to make up for abandoning them. That turned out to be impossible. Everything I touch seems to offer promise, then turns to dust under my fingers. Why should this situation be any different?  What is it to you anyways?’ 

he hissed. 



“Maybe nothing.” Javert hadn’t yet answered the aggravating con’s question about his intentions toward the children from days ago for himself, never mind Valjean. The inspector was no stranger to dark moods, he had greeted them as an old friend the last few days. 



“You are not contemplating doing something self-sacrificing and stupid again, are you?” Javert had not forgotten that the last time the con had been caught between possible imprisonment, even execution, and the possibility of a child in danger he had stormed off without much of a feasible plan.




‘If I asked you to help me fashion a sling to safely carry the eggs and turn the other way when I try to flee-’




“You know my answer to that, don’t be a fool. The soldiers on the walls; possible advance guards of the dragon delegation watching and waiting, the possibilities for it going to hell in a handbasket are innumerable. If doing the lawful thing for once does not convince you to stay put, being reminded of the likely consequences should.” Maybe, Javert stared at the eggs, if he thought they would get away clean- but no.




‘Your precious law,’

 Valjean’s voice dripped bitterness and he lifted his wing away, 

‘which always has to take precedence.’




Suddenly shivering again, Javert winced and thought of green caps and cold iron. The law - a full court of law! - had decided that Valjean was irredeemable, and thus endorsed Javert’s own beliefs about men who stumbled but once. That was what a life sentence meant, that such men were forsaken. And Javert had always thought the law to be just, to be right. Men who fell from grace showed that they inherently lacked morals and should never be trusted and henceforth their every action was suspect and tainted. But Valjean had saved his life on that cliff face against his own interests, that was not how someone who was a lost cause acted. A ruthless beast could have done away with all three climbers and used their coats to cobble together a sling for the eggs and flown away. Valjean had not. The arguments were chasing themselves like a dog its tail and the whiplash was beginning to make Javert dizzy.




‘Maybe you are seeing a conflict where there is none.’ 

The mental voice interrupted the words chasing each other in a circle.



“Did I voice my thoughts out loud?” Javert asked and steeled himself for the answer.




‘Yes.’




How embarrassing. The world seemed to be unraveling at the seams and with it Javert’s prized sangfroid. “For a second I honestly played with the thought of letting you go, betraying my duty.”



A small plume of smoke escaped the dragon’s snout and then the big body was wracked with coughs. 

‘What? You nearly…what?’ 

Even the mental voice sounded choked.



Javert glared and refused to repeat himself.



The coughs abated into hiccups.

 ‘Seriously? I never thought…  T’was only me voicing a scenario, not coupled with any real expectations for assistance. Are you by chance ill? You have hardly slept the last two nights; don’t think I did not notice. No wonder that you are frazzled. And the lack of sleep can’t be conducive to rational contemplations.’ 

And then Valjean added insult to injury by cautiously sniffing Javert.



The reminder about the lack of rest was unneeded, his body was informing Javert of that little factoid in great detail. As was the concern. “Just… shut up. Forget what I said and concentrate on your own problems.” 



Of course Valjean did not listen, but eagerly pounced on the chance to torment Javert some more.

 ‘I cannot! Not that I think it is a bad development for you to question things a bit more, but it seems to cause you considerable distress. But maybe I can help you fight your demons by offering an outside perspective. I recognize the signs. I had a crisis of faith once and a wise man helped me. Not that I am considering myself wise, I am a poor substitute for M. Myriel.’




“The bishop of Digne? No, a holy man you aren’t. Very well. Let’s hear it.” Javert could always dismiss the advice later. And maybe listening to another one of Valjean’s ridiculous views on life and mercy would be enough to dredge up the old surety that Javert wanted no part in anything Valejan thought sensible.




‘It might surprise you, but I am not against following rules per se. You have accused me of mocking the law with my actions more than once. But some laws should be… interpreted,’ 

Valjean began, cautiously and slowly, maybe expecting Javert to erupt and begin to shout.



And there it was, as expected. “That way lies anarchy. If everyone suddenly decides which rules to follow - no.” Hell, no.


‘Quite. I do not disagree that rules and laws are an essential part of society. But what I object to is how a lot of them are implemented - without mercy and certainly not blind as Justicia should be. For simplicity’s sake let’s agree Justice is indeed impartial - that does not change that her servants are human and thus fallible - the people writing laws and the ones enforcing them both. You cling to the security of certainty but there is none to be had and now that construct is crumbling all around you.



‘You can firmly believe in order and accountability, is what I am trying to say and unfortunately mangling, and disagree with the particulars you encounter in your daily duty. Those are not mutually exclusive.’




The policeman wanted to disagree, to tear that sacrilegious argument to shreds. There was nothing flexible about the laws and how to implement them. But wasn’t the proof staring at him in person with green, earnest eyes? Valjean was a convict and a good man both, which could no longer be denied. 
It was counter to everything he'd always known, but once the thought had pushed itself into the forefront of his mind, it would not be denied, and Javert was just so tired.



“I can’t-” It was too much. He leaned over and rested his forehead against his knees. “If I might ask, what was the lesson you learned?” Anything to distract him.




‘That there is always hope and mercy, even in the darkest hours.’

 Now it was Valjean who sounded gutted. 

‘Something that I had forgotten during the last months. Thank you for reminding me. Maybe-’

 whatever he had wanted to add was cut off immediately and not picked up again.



Neither of them spoke again, too occupied with their own thoughts. It was not a companionable silence but the enmity had lessened enough for Javert to not refuse the offered warmth when the wing slowly lowered again.



TBC


For those who wonder: Valjean’s dragon form resembles the proto drakes from World of Warcraft without the strange little stick forelegs. Roughly their size, I imagined, so he would be big and strong enough to carry a passenger or a heavy load - imagine a T-Rex, four to five tons and about the same head size.


Javert adamantly refused to return to the barracks to sleep in a bed; he had only to think what had happened the last time he had turned his back and trusted others with guard duty. Since it would not be wise for the officer in charge of the handover to look like death warmed over - Valjean’s charming observation - Javert had done his best to get more than a few winks of sleep the next two nights by curling up beside the dragon. 



In accordance with his current ‘luck’, the delegation arrived shortly after Morpheus had grudgingly taken pity on one bone-tired inspector, after another long day of dealing with Valjean in general and the dragon going out on another hunt in particular. The only saving grace for his dignity, after a loud hail from a guard woke him, was that Javert was well hidden by the con’s massive dragon form. Thus he was able to sort out the worst of his sleep-rumpled appearance before getting up and greeting them like a civilized person, not some bedraggled hoodlum.



On the other hand, what sort of high-brow reception could anyone reasonably expect when invading in the middle of the night? Unless polite customs compared to human norms were as widely different in dragon society as were their clothes. While he was used to foreign garb, having spent years in harbor towns, these were not the low quality clothes of merchants and sailors. Javert sourly took in their elaborate robes, which would not have been out of place at some high-society masquerade - if they were dry, which they were not.



There were five of them, soaked by the rain and looking none too neat and tidy as a result, escorted by an only slightly less wet Commissaire Renault. By himself, without being accompanied by a soldier security escort. It was not Javert’s place to question his superior, but was that wise?



“There they are, safe and sound, as I promised,” Renault addressed his visitors with a sweep of his arm encompassing nest, dragon and Javert, and was all smiles and charm. “Before we continue, would you please allow me a minute with my officer? There are a few details, mostly formalities but important ones, you understand, that came up recently and he is unaware of.”



One of the strangers bowed gracefully in turn, revealing that his robe was slitted at the sides and worn over an undertunic. “But of course. We arrived at an inopportune time, didn’t we? Guests shouldn’t expect everything to be ready for them in the middle of the night. We will stay over here,” he indicated a section of the planks halfway between the suspiciously watching Valjean and the exit. 



“Thank you, it won’t take long. Monsieur Javert, a word please.” The two officers only went a far enough distance to reasonably be sure that they wouldn’t be overheard. Renault went so far as to turn his back so the delegation members would not see his facial expressions. The current one was a grimace warring with frozen politeness.



“Ahem, Javert? If you don’t mind me saying so, that looked pretty… cozy. You are the last man I would expect to find snuggling up to a convict,” were the first words out of Renault’s mouth.



What a situation to be caught in by a superior! “I have been spending the nights here, instead of in the barracks. I thought it better to closely supervise the situation because Valjean tends to do crazy things when something unexpected and out of control happens.” Javert felt himself blush and wanted to double check if his hair was out of place and if his clothes were in some state of dissareé he had overlooked earlier, but instead he fixed his eyes on a point just right of Renault’s right shoulder. This way he was able to have a good view of what was going on near the nest.



“The nights are cold and he is better than a furnace,” he added after an embarrassed pause.



“Hm. If you say so. The weather 

is

 dreadful. And cold.” Renault’s judgmental stare flickered from the inspector’s bare head down to his no doubt scuffed boots. “There have been a lot of rumors about you two, you know. And they aren’t baseless, judging by your own words on paper. 'Valjean' this, 'Prisoner 24601' that. Repeated inquiries to his hometown, demands for updates about his whereabouts, multiple communiquées with the prefecture - hell, when I accepted this post and was first briefed, your and his name came up in conjunction more than once, even though 

neither 

of you was in residence any longer.”



A stone statue would be envious of Javert’s posture at the moment. 



Renault snorted indelicately. “You can’t deny that your interest in this man seems to go beyond mere professional fervor. I’d thought it just another case of… fixation. It happens, an officer getting obsessive for one reason or another. And not that I fault you for saving those eggs, time was of the essence, you said. Endangering them by prolonging, 

ahem

, fertilization - the weyr’s reaction if something had gone wrong, I don’t want to imagine it! And it was not personal per se, another officer could have done it, you were just there I guess, but-” he faltered, eying Javert dubiously before rallying and continuing his rambling.



“But now, after this display I have to ask, you understand, about the exact nature of your relationship with Valjean now and in the past. I need to know if I should replace you due to a conflict of interest. And I trust your famous honesty regarding your answer.”



A lifetime of duty and doing his best to be above reproach, and it had come to this. Over the length of the building, his eyes unerringly sought Valjean’s. The dragon was now crouched over his nest, not unlike an agitated bird, but most of his attention seemed to be on Javert and he inclined his head when Javert did not avert his gaze.




‘That is the constipated expression you always made when you wanted to tell a certain mayor that he was suggesting something beyond the pale but you couldn’t because of decorum and protocol,' 

the thought reached Javert. 

‘I can behave in a way that will make them call you over if you want?’




Javert shook his head, for both his audiences. “No matter how it may appear, I have never had an inappropriate relationship with Jean Valjean. Not during his stint as a prisoner, not while serving at his town, and not now,” Javert carefully formulated his response.



“Let’s not beat around the bush, inspector.” The commissaire stared back, unimpressed.



“Even if so, it would not be against the law, would it? Unprofessional yes, reason for a reprimand and dismissal? Certainly. But not cause for legal action. And,” Javert could not prevent his tone from carrying a hint of indignation, “I 

never

 hesitated to do my duty no matter my personal feelings on the subject.”



“Hm. No, that cannot be denied. Arguing for a life sentence instead of execution is understandable yet still harsh. Arresting a lover might even be considered the ultimate proof of duty before sentiment.”



There seemed to be nothing Javert could say to change the commissaire’s faulty assumptions, so he kept further protests to himself. And even if the man wasn’t aware of the particulars, was Renault completely wrong about Javert and Valjean’s relations toward each other being unusually… intimate? There had been no carnal acts but over the years they had come to learn more about each other than many married couples did - and they had created offspring with each other. If that was not intimate, what would qualify? Javert felt the need to giggle nervously but ruthlessly clamped down on it. He would no doubt be asked about what he found funny and did not think it wise to mention that ‘dragon’ was sometimes used as an uncomplimentary substitute for ‘wife’.



In the meantime, and thankfully unaware of what Javert was thinking, Renault had gone onto the next point of order. “And it looks like Valjean does not hold grudges! Or he would have injured a lot of wardens and soldiers. Capital! It has not slipped the ministry’s notice that he rather spent nearly two decades as our prisoner than ask for draconic judgment. There has to be a reason for that. A dragon, even if only as a reliable information source on the crown’s side, would be a coveted resource. Do you know where his loyalties lie?”



Javert did not want to explain the convoluted mess that was Valjean’s decision-making process, he really, really didn’t, but there was one surety he could offer. “It is firmly with whomever can keep his offspring safe.”



“I thought that might be the case. That is something we can work with. Additionally, the incident with the guard, Corbeil, I believe we showed Valjean that the crown isn’t against him on principle, 

non

?” Renault preened and Javert tried his best to keep his expression even, when faced with the sort of creative revisionism which erased inconvenient details like canons and lack of any provided food.



“The delegation was impressed with the resolution as well.” Renault nodded happily. “The last days have been insane and everybody is pestering me with questions, you cannot imagine how much. The local aristocrats are fearful for their property - as if marauding dragons will fall out of the sky and torch everything any minute now - the mayor is hysterical and practically bivouacking on my doorstep. Everyone is clamoring for reassurances, I don’t have a minute of peace. It has to stop!



“And between you and me, I have been running out of arguments for denying my wife some special fertilizer for her garden, if you get my drift. Thus even my private life is impacted.”



No, Javert did not know what the admiral was alluding to! If this was some sort of crude humor among higher officers he did not want to be part of it!



“It’s better for all involved if this is resolved favorably, fast, don’t you think?” Renault twinkled conspiratorially. “I shudder to think what 

that 

would do to her prized roses and even if she isn’t concerned - nobody wants to be strangled to death in their sleep by vines with teeth or whatever.”



Roses? Literal roses, not some strange euphemism? Oh. Well, it could have been worse. Since Javert’s expertise when it came to exotic botany was about as developed as his knowledge about fishing he could not offer anything but a pained, polite smile.



Renault pulled him a few steps further away from the strangers and lowered his voice to a whisper. “This whole affair has caused a commotion, no doubt about it, but the admiralty, the ministry, and the prefecture agree that it might be a blessing in disguise. We can use this opportunity to gain insight into what the dragons are up to. We haven’t had any reliable information in decades! I am sure a resourceful man like you will find a way to give us reliable information; we can count on you, Javert?”



“Sir? You left the handling of the prisoner in my hands until now, but does this mean you will be sending me alongside him to the weyr? I thought they would take over fully and fold him into their own justice system and my part would be done with his departure.” It wasn’t as if Javert had much of a choice in either case. A good police inspector went where he was sent, even if it was for something as distasteful as spying. 



Maybe the last days had significantly eroded Javert’s ability to hide his feelings because the commissaire looked at him appraisingly before clapping him on the back in commiseration. 



“Yes, you have been appointed as the first envoy to the draconic race in France’s history, what an honor. The documents are sealed in a diplomatic case, waiting for you to open them as soon as you are in a secure location. Don’t make such a long face, it isn’t going to be all bad, hm? You are going to be a pioneer for dragon-human relations and it isn’t as if the cabinet is planning a war, but this is a priceless opportunity to get insight into their numbers and fortifications.”



“If they aren’t complete imbeciles they will 

expect

 me to spy and will be alert,” Javert whispered back, his stomach cramping unhappily. “Sir, I am not qualified for this!”



Renault did not deny it and only commented with another hearty pat. There would be bruises on Javert’s shoulders by tomorrow.



On the upside, now Javert would not need to find some obscure loophole to let him keep an eye on the eggs, and he could personally make sure that Valjean didn’t fall back into his old ways now that the dragon had circumvented human justice. 



Something unrelated bothered Javert, though. If he had to leave his old post it should be done properly. He hadn’t left any instructions to be handed to a successor, some of his case files were not fully annotated, and dispatches were waiting to be finished! The only thing Javert did not have to worry about was having left behind his most prized possessions or personal things because they all fit into his suitcase. And that currently sat at the foot of his bunk in the barracks and could be easily fetched.



Javert winced when coming to the last point on his mental to-do list. He would never subject a horse to the torture of being flown around by a dragon! Not that it was an available option. As much as he would have loved to call Gymont his own, he had only been granted the use of the spirited gelding for work. But Javert deemed it better for everyone involved for Gymont to remain safely in Montreuil. Liné wasn’t the sharpest tool in the shed when it came to police work but he was passably competent as an equestrian, and the horse would do well there. 



“Sir, do you know who is going to take my place as Montreuil-sur-Mer’s Chef de Police? My second in command, Sergeant Liné, is competent enough to cover for a week or two, but neither he nor Darnasse are suited for the responsibility of leading a small police force without a lot of additional training and correction.” Javert was beginning to see a theme.



Renault waved aside the concern like a pesky fly. “I don’t know, most likely they’ll simply have to learn to deal. Good operatives don’t grow on trees and shouldn’t be wasted on some provincial town anyways. But back to your new assignment. Do you need additional supplies? I was reminded by M. Chabouillet that you haven’t had time to pack for a diplomatic long-term mission. He is your patron, no? A delightful chap, that man will go far! He thoughtfully added a polite addendum to the Prefect’s last missive. The prefecture agreed that a substantial raise is appropriate for your new post and I will gladly hand out an advance. Future wages will be sent to Grenoble. The town is near the weyr, I have been told.”



Javert had followed that new barrage of words with rising confusion and grappled for a response that would not make him appear ungrateful or a dolt. “I guess that much of my supply needs will depend on the living conditions I will encounter at the weyr. Not to forget the colder weather at a higher altitude. The robes the delegates are wearing look neither cheap nor lightweight. I will try to find a good opportunity to inquire and get back to you with an answer, if that is all right.” As much as he detested needing a loan, it might be unavoidable. Even if his regular clothes would suffice, Valjean didn’t own any at all, and it was unreasonable and impractical to expect him to stay in his scales after regaining the ability to shift just because he had nothing to cover his body against weather or stares.



Another thing to ask the delegation. Here it had been Valjean’s labor as a galley slave and the prison administration that had seen to it that he had food and something to wear, no matter the low quality of both. And there were the eggs. Unhatched eggs did not require much monetary expenditure, but they would not stay eggs forever.



“Yes, more information is undoubtedly what I need,” Javert murmured.



“See? You are made for this. I have confidence that you will do us proud.” Another display of camaraderie, another friendly twinkle, and the Commissaire gestured for Javert to lead the way back to the waiting delegation.



“Here he is, our new envoy to the draconic race: Monsieur Javert! I have already ratified the transfer papers and he will be ready to commence with his duties immediately. Nobody else knows as much about this complicated situation as he does, feel free to clear any remaining issues with his help.”



Good Lord in Heaven, this was looking more and more like descent into the circle of hell reserved for smarmy politicians and their dupes, clueless policemen. He would have to ask Valjean for the exact number of the circle because Javert had never been a fan of the Divine Comedy; though perhaps Alighieri had had the good sense to avoid that one in his imaginary travels.



“Greetings. I fear, with no book on etiquette available concerning this situation we have found ourselves in, you will have to forgive me for some small lapses. How may I address you?” Javert bowed deeply, hoping that it would conceal some of his unease.



Monsieur, no longer Monsieur l’Inspecteur. Never the chance to be Monsieur l’Inspecteur, First Class of Paris. That would be something else to accept.



The spokesperson of the weyr delegation did not seem to be annoyed, neither about having had to wait nor about Javert’s question. “Greetings from the Black Talon Weyr. I am Wing Leader Inéz, this is Lieutenant Alistaire my second in command, Scout Sérmonville, Medic Treillard, and Navigator Peyrac. Monsieur as an address is appropriate outside of official ceremonies.” Each of them bowed in turn when their name was called.



Javert tried to get their measure but was aware that it would take more than one meeting to do more than guess at their personalities and motivations. Or their ranking system. They would not simply give themselves away to make it easier for him, surely.



He dearly wished that his new job had come with the missing rulebook he had mentioned to them. A detailed, multi-chaptered volume would have been best. In small print; Javert would for once not have minded or complained.



Inéz bowed, once again. “The main reason for our delay was the lack of solid cloud cover during the previous nights above densely populated areas. There is no need to terrorize the general public with the sight of a full wing in flight over their heads, don’t you agree? We may have opened avenues of diplomatic interactions, but most of the other weyrs will treat this as a trial run and will be keeping themselves neutral for now.”



“Indeed.” 



Inéz went on with his obviously rehearsed speech. “It would be prudent to return to the weyr while the weather still provides cover and not be forced to wait for days, but before we can do that we need to examine M. Valjean and his clutch. Their continued good health is of the utmost importance and would take precedence, of course.”




‘If they expect me to let strangers handle my eggs, they will be negatively surprised.’




Javert translated the mild, very Madeleine speak of ‘negatively surprised’ into ‘a few limbs short’ and decided that some intervention was called for.



“Monsieurs, please keep in mind that M. Valjean has had a harrowing few days and requires careful handling,” Javert cautioned. Nobody would be able to say they weren’t warned.




‘Gee, thank you so much. While I appreciate the sentiment, I don’t like the implication,’ 




Valjean did not like being called delicate, who’d have thought?



“Extraordinary, I say!” Inéz exclaimed happily. “He does not seem to be overly agitated to me, which we did not expect to be the case. Even the most even-tempered dragon would not permit strangers in the nest’s close vicinity. A feral one would already have attacked. Which means that we are off to a very promising start.”




‘Yes, but a start to what? Child abduction and murder, or a new card game partnership? I do not understand why he seems so creepily cheerful. It is suspicious behavior for someone who has braved the deluge outside that should have dampened his disposition,’ 

grumbled a nervously twitching Valjean, and Javert nearly did something highly undiplomatic, like openly agree with a convicted felon. 



And it seemed as if Valjean was directing his thoughts solely to Javert, or there would have been a reaction from the others by now. It left the heavy lifting in gauging their intentions to Javert. 



“Since meeting M. Valjean in this form is the first time I have interacted knowingly with a dragon, I can’t say that I have any points for comparison about typical temperament and disposition. Would you explain what you meant? You seem to be surprised and relieved.”



“Of course. You have to understand that my wing and I are the ones that are called when a… situation turns dangerous. Conflicts between only humans can cause a lot of damage, it does not take much imagination to calculate how much worse that can end with dragons instead, 

non

?” said Inéz.



Both Javert and Renault nodded and grimaced. There were some famous historical examples, if not recent ones, of what that would look like. London burning came to mind.



The one that had been introduced as the medic took over, smiling just as disturbingly broadly. If they were aiming for harmless, they missed their target by a wide margin. “When we read that we might have to contain a heavily plated dark brown dragon with four limbs, we braced ourselves for a difficult situation.” He must have seen the question on the two officers’ faces because he elaborated, pointing at Valjean as a living example. “Two wings, two hindlegs, yes? Most dragon forms have an additional pair of front legs. Thus from the provided description, we suspected him to be a primeval.”



“And primevals are considered dangerous, the prisoner has told me. It’s one reason why he is so defensive, he expects you to be more confrontational,” Javert took the opportunity to probe. 



Their visitors shared a few speaking looks and minute grimaces; unfortunately, it formed a language Javert was not fluent in. Cutthroats and shady merchants would have been more transparent.



“Ah. Would you please clear something up for us? I think we misunderstood some of the information about M. Valjean. Your communiquée seemed to have been, beyond outward descriptions of his physique, light on details. When you talk about ‘he said’, what do you mean exactly?” Inéz asked.



“If you would be so kind and expand on your comment about primevals first? I am very interested in that,” Javert refused to be deterred.



Inéz cleared his throat before answering. “Primevals are a dying breed, quite rare among dragonkin. I know of two individuals, M. Valjean brings the number up to three. They inspire caution because of their extraordinary battle prowess, brutal control of their fire, and fiery temper, not something that is valued in polite society, you will agree?”



What did they take him for, a mere novice regarding subterfuge and prevarication? “I am no stranger to brutality. You are speaking to someone who has been a law enforcement officer for many years. If there is something I am familiar with, it is how appearance can be deceiving and how dangerous even the most mild-tempered and seemingly harmless individual can be if sufficiently provoked. Judging someone purely by how they look is foolhardy.”




‘An experienced law enforcement officer you may be, a savvy diplomat you are not,’

 sighed Valjean.



“It is refreshing to talk to someone who understands that.” Instead of taking insult, Javert got happy nods and approving smiles, more honest looking ones, from every single member of the delegation. Even the dour Peyrac who seemed to be restricted to one facial expression, the only one among the five who wasn’t projecting cheery friendliness, dragged the corners of his mouth upward for a bit. 



Javert raised an eyebrow and tilted his head in Valjean’s direction. “According to M. Valjean, his form makes him unwelcome, to put it politely, in your society. We only became aware of this after the initial message to the dragon consulate in Paris was already on its way. It should be easy to understand for everyone why that additional information would have caused us some concern.” 



“Concern? What for and why so suddenly? It is a surprising change in sentiment, you have to agree. M. Valjean has been sentenced to lifelong hard labor and everyone with functioning eyes can see the toll it has already taken. You humans do not want him and his circumstances can hardly get much worse for him. And, come to think of it, I am not quite sure what he has done to earn such a conviction; it sounded ludicrous?” Hints of sharp edges were poking through Inéz’s amiable mien.



Before Javert could open his mouth, not only did Renault put a hand on the former inspector’s left shoulder and clamp down hard in warning, but Wing Leader Inéz continued without waiting for a reply.



“Never being able to fly again, living in captivity, those are considered soul deaths among dragons. I’d rather

 be

 dead, personally. But discourse about 

your

 penitentiary system is not pertinent to the situation, 

non

? It is clear you do not know how to handle him, or any dragon, but that is why we are here.”



“And how do you deal with criminal dragons?” Javert asked bluntly. “According to your own words you expected a fight and to physically subdue M. Valjean.”



“We would be forced to put him, or any other dragon, down if they were lost in a berserker rage or if they had gone, outside a combat situation, irretrievably feral. There are other instances where capital punishment would be considered. Your courts did discuss the option for M. Valjean.”



“I do want to point out that a death sentence was considered and discarded as an option. One of our mutual goals is to establish better relations. Hearing about an execution of someone our judges spared would make a lot of high-ranking officials wonder if ‘draconian’ being equivalent to brutal in our vernacular is more than some baseless expression,” Javert replied.




‘I take it back. You are 


no


 diplomat. At all.’




Javert ignored that aside and looked from one delegation member to the other. They seemed to be mostly unfazed, judging by their relaxed postures.



“A fitting punishment for 

major

 transgressions. Unless there was something excluded from the file, M. Valjean committed minor theft and identity fraud.” Inéz huffed and rolled his eyes. “Dragons traversing the human world tend to change their name every other day.”



Not even Valjean had the audacity to deny that he had committed serious crimes. Vehemently justified? Yes. Denied? No. To hear it be waved away as negligible made it hard for Javert to stay polite. “Maybe that is a minor detail in the draconic world but it is not according to human law. And our concerns are less about M. Valjean at this point and more about the welfare of the unhatched dragonets. They are innocent. We have heard that you treasure your young but we do not know if that extends to a primeval’s offspring, and a criminal one at that?”



“How dare you!” Inéz’s furious exclamation was seconded by four other voices, some of them not the result of purely human throats. Until now it had not been clear who among the delegation was human and who draconic. They might have found Javert’s blunt nature refreshing before but here he had crossed an invisible line. All of them had taken a step forward, three now sporting the faint outline of colorful scales on their skin and too-sharp teeth peeking out between snarling lips.



Before anyone could find out what would win, restraint and polite veneer, or outrage, a wall of scale and muscle separated the opponents. The delegation members found themselves shoved back towards the entrance of the building.



More shouts rang out, barely audible over a deep, raspy growl. 



Renault, proving that he was more than a desk jockey, had shaken off his surprise fast and shifted his weight so he was balanced on the balls of his feet, ready to move, instead of cowering or freezing. The two French officers exchanged a quick look and took stock.



Valjean had somehow used the commotion to not only separate Renault and Javert from immediate danger, but he had also maneuvered the humans so that they were now near the nest and all of them on the safe side of a pissed-off dragon - if one could call being in close proximity to a twitching dragon tail and raised wings “safe”.



“Sir, stay further back please, he will not harm me so I will take point,” murmured Javert, and he wished for something bigger than his boot knife, which had found its way into his hand without much conscious thought. But then, after pondering the problem for a second, Javert put it away again. From a certain viewpoint he did have a much bigger weapon at his disposal - or rather: defense.



All he was getting from Valjean just now over their connection was fiercely protective anger, not words. Javert did not want to distract him, because while a dragon might be immune, or less likely to be mortally wounded by dragonfire, Javert was not. Getting between fighting dragons was a supremely bad idea. On the other hand, so was initiating the first human-draconian war in hundreds of years. Which he might have done a minute ago.



“Valjean?” Javert raised his voice. “Please don’t bite them. That would be in bad taste for a diplomatic meeting.” And maybe he should have formulated that differently.



It wasn’t Valjean who answered, but the wWing lLeader. “He is mainly glaring at us. And hissing. It sounds like he is warning us off.”



“At a guess, it was implying that you might harm the eggs that caused this reaction, yes? From his point of view, you are endangering his children by starting a fight with them near.” And Javert, once more, could not disagree with the con’s opinion. If one dragon was considered devastating, four of them fighting inside this building would level everything.



“Nothing would have happened to them. We would not have done more than shout,” insisted Inéz, his voice reaching them from beyond Valjean’s bulk.



“Looked different from where I was standing,” supplied Renault drily, 

sotto voce 

to Javert.



“To explain it in a way you humans might understand: how would you react if someone accused you to your face of habitually, let’s say, eating your young? And primeval or not, we are three against his one and any fight he may have started, we would have finished fast enough to prevent any damage,” Inéz explained.



That was their opinion and it was probably based on their valid experiences. But Javert, unfortunately, had had more than one opportunity to observe how vicious Jean the Jack was at down-and-dirty brawling, no matter the odds against him. Valjean had never belonged to any of the gangs that had formed and reformed regularly among the prisoners. After a few truly nasty fights trying to force him to take sides, he had been mostly left alone. These strangers had overinflated opinions about their prowess. 



Not that Javert felt the urgent need to see his own opinion confirmed. A fight was not what they needed here. He grimaced and began to rub his hands soothingly over what he could reach of the armored back in front of him, in a rhythm he knew had been calming when done with a brush.




‘I 


really


 do not like their attitude,’

 finally, after long moments of tense silence, came a verbal reaction. Then Valjean leaned, ever so slightly, against the touch.



Javert nodded, trusting the dragon’s peripheral vision to see it. Neither was he enthused with their current company. “Can we agree that this was an unfortunate misunderstanding?” he called out.



With the exception of Javert, thinking it prudent to position himself directly in front of Valjean, everyone shuffled around carefully until they had resumed their earlier positions, not sure how to bridge the conversational gulf that had formed.



“I trust that I can leave you gentlemen alone for now?” Renault said when nobody wanted to pick up the discussion. “I fear that other urgent matters await my attention, a prison never sleeps. The guards outside will receive instructions to fetch me immediately if you do need more official help from the Bagne of Toulon. I will, of course, return to wish you well on your departure.”



Fisticuffs were not an approved modern negotiation method and were hard to come back from with everyone’s dignity and pride intact. But retreat was a time-honored strategic move, thought Javert with dark amusement.



Inéz nodded regally and bowed, the heavy fabric of his strange robes swaying gently. “Apologies. Apropos regular operational concerns, will it cause any problems if I send Sémonville for the last member of my wWing and the supplies he is guarding outside the city? Our gear and provisions. Due to our unfamiliarity with human hospitality, we thought it prudent to bring food rations. We did not want to strain your people if we could avoid it. Dragons are hell on a pantry.”



All that jovial politeness could not erase that all of them had witnessed how shallow such manners ran and how fast the claws could come out. Javert observed the exchange silently, his arms folded and his back resting against Valjean’s form. The dragon was still eying the strangers as if gauging who should be taken down first.



“The luggage will have to be inspected by the gate personnel, just a formality. If you would please use the west gate? The men there will be told to expect you. Maybe one of my soldiers should go along and help? If it is far away a carriage will be provided,” Renault offered.



“Just outside the city limits; additional manpower would be appreciated. You are very kind.” Inéz waved to get his scout’s full attention and motioned that he should go with the admiral.



They watched the two figures exit the building.




‘Since the commissaire will not be the one lugging around heavy cargo, that is pure brownnosing. It is easy to be kind, isn’t that what you’ve said to me?’ 

Valjean’s thoughts reached Javert. 



“Easy to be kind, hard to be just,” murmured the former inspector under his breath, repeating one of his staples whenever he had argued with Valjean’s mayor alter ego about mercy towards less fortunate people. “Not quite the context I usually use it for though.”



Not quietly enough, because the three dragons turned their heads in his direction, confirming Javert’s suspicions that they had superior hearing ability. He refused to be embarrassed, people who eavesdropped should not expect to like what they heard.



Inéz and Treillard waited for the dripping wet tarp to be lowered again behind the departing people before walking nearer, leaving their remaining compatriots behind. “I should be relieved that brass is the same everywhere, eh?” said Inéz.



Javert inclined his head. He would not openly badmouth the highest guard in the bagne in front of these strangers. “Many of my colleagues have been eagerly looking forward to the prospect of seeing you all swoop down into the courtyard outside. They will be deeply disappointed,” he idly mentioned instead.



“Ah, maybe we will make up for that when we take off back home. Now that the good admiral is no longer here we might be able to cut back on tedious circling and posturing. If we had known we would need finely honed phrases instead of talons we would have sent a different team,” replied Inéz.



His companion cleared his throat pointedly and raised the bag he had been carrying at his side. It looked like a typical medical practitioner's bag and had been the only accessory brought in with the delegation that Javert had seen. 



It made the wWing leader laugh out loud. “Or not, I stand corrected: since my wWing can boast the best healer among the Flight, we would have been sent anyway. But we should have been assigned a negotiator.”



“Is there much need for negotiators in a weyr?” asked Javert, and could feel the pressure against his back increase because Valjean was leaning forward, interested in the answer as well.



“We use them for mediating conflicts in and among the weyrs when it is inappropriate to bother the weyr leader, who is the highest level of authority, similar to your king. Or,” the medic wrinkled his nose, “maybe more like your barons of old? We don’t have one leader to rule us all. But yes, we need them often enough to require a full guild of them,” he smirked. “Dragons like to fight.”



“We noticed,” Javert couldn’t help but reply.



“Oh, so our big friend here is known for brawling? He will fit right in.”



That was not what he had meant, but on the other hand- Before Javert could open his mouth he was poked by an armored nose and suddenly a scaly face with glowering narrowed eyes shoved in front of Javert’s face.




‘Do not say it! The only physical fight I have been in for over five years, my dear ins- ah, former inspector, is the one with you at the hospital! Whereas you are the one who seems to gleefully jump into every tavern brawl and accost highway robbers without sufficient backup! And I doubt that has changed.


 I


 do not like to fight.’




“Neither do I. It is simply part of my job.” And at the moment his job was dealing with more dragons, so he threaded his finger into the strange beard Valjean had in this form and tugged until the menace got the hint and moved out of the way again. It was not like anything Javert had ever touched, a mixture of fur and feathers with quills supporting fluff instead of stiff plumage.



“Curious,” said Inéz. The two strangers were back to staring openly and quite rudely. “You can understand him! I suspected when I saw how comfortably you interact. This is truly an auspicious day.”



Yes, the question about their mode of communication had been an earlier point of contention, hadn’t it? “I wondered what was causing your questions when I thought it obvious. Apparently not. My report was detailed and mentioned that only I can understand him.” 



“We were only informed that you can communicate, not how or the extent,” explained Inéz, a pinched expression on his face. “Clearly there has been some worrying misrepresentation of information. Or, we are victims of haste. Many people on both sides seem to be scrambling to keep up and we all know how that tends to end for the people in the field, 

non

?”



Javert was no stranger to the head of an organization not knowing what the feet were doing, so he could easily believe that. “Please explain why it seems to be such an extraordinary ability? I thought it was simply another aspect of him being a dragon and perhaps me having dragon ancestry. Maybe it is a fluke?” 



Valjean accomplishing some feat he should not, hah.



Treillard was the one to answer and shook his head no. “Not at all! It is not unheard of, 

non

, and every member of the draconic race would be overjoyed to encounter a human like you. Ah, how to explain this properly?”



There were scarce few people who were honestly delighted to see the stern inspector any day. The more common reaction was to duck into a sidestreet and hope they were not the objects of his current hunt. The thought of what those miscreants would say to the idea of dozens of him running around made the corner of Javert’s mouth twitch against the need to grin. But really, so much excitement about hearing one other person’s mental messages? The ability had come in as practical, no question, but only because Valjean was unable to transform, and that would hopefully not turn out to be a common dragon malady.



“Just tell them. There has been a change in human legislation lately, something their self-styled imperator decreed, they might not take it badly and none of the regular human soldiers are around to hear,” sighed Inéz, running his fingers through his hair.



The medic played with the latch of his bag. “They still might react badly, as we’ve seen in the past, if you remember?”



Javert had enough of the prevarications. “You are aware that we can hear you and that you are not making things any clearer with your cryptic hints and infernal fiddling?”



“Hearing a dragon’s thoughts is the most obvious sign that you are compatible with them, that you are a viable mate.” The medic kept careful eye contact during that proclamation.



“Mate,” Javert repeated slowly, enunciating the word carefully like it had more than four letters. He did not even for one second consider it in the connotation of camaraderie among friends and colleagues, which would not require such dramatic dancing around the subject.



Treillard nodded, watching him like a powder keg that could blow up any second. “Every dragon waits eagerly for the day that they meet a human who can hear their thoughts or feel their emotions. There is no guarantee that it will happen to them and oftentimes they will wander the earth constantly in search of that elusive individual.”



Now, while this was not something that would topple the nation, it was also not the kind of secret that should have been hidden. It was something he should have heard from the other person who was impacted in equal measure, not a stranger.



“Did you know that?” Whirling around, his coat flaring out around him, Javert harshly poked his right forefinger so fiercely into the chest in front of him that it hurt. “Did you know and keep silent? You knew that it was rare, but not the connection to mates, which you knew were possible? Oh, just another day and another tasteless joke at the expense of-”  then he caught himself and clamped down on what had nearly spewed out of his mouth.



To everyone watching and especially that fucking con, he had to look like a raving lunatic or a shrewish housewife! Hadn’t he embarrassed himself utterly with his unprofessional display at the hospital, all because of a wily convict fooling him for years? Afterward, sitting silently outside the town jail and listening to every faint rustling of chains, Javert had promised himself and Valjean both that never again would he allow himself to be compromised to this degree. So much for that, eh? Javert closed his eyes so he would not start to scream incoherently.




‘Javert?’

 



Naturally, this was the perfect time for the bastard to address him, and informally as well. Valjean’s thought-voice was small, unsure, and hesitant; just like the featherlight touch of beard and snout that grazed over the tightly, slowly breathing policeman when the name alone resulted in no reaction at all.



The first theory that crystallized out of a miasma of fragmented shards was that the stupid con had kept silent because - well, how would he profit? He wanted Javert to have even fewer reasons to stay near - Valjean would not have to interact with him longer than needed for the eggs to survive. Had he not stated very clearly that he would not expect anything from the inspector?




‘I would have told you if I had known, I swear! I know you don’t think much of my character but I would not, I would not- A mate? I have a mate?’




Was Valjean feigning joy? Of being Javert’s mate? Ridiculous. And the lies kept piling up. “You,” he addressed the dragon, “stop, this second. I do not want to hear another word from you just now. And you!” He slowly, measuredly turned around again to face the delegation. “Out. Take your men, take your bag, take your

 dragon nonsense

 and wait outside.”



The wing leader sighed deeply and refused to budge. “This counts as a supremely bad reaction. At the moment you look ready to murder him, so you do understand why we are hesitant to leave?”



“Even if I was planning to strangle him,” Javert nearly spat the ‘him’ in his anger, “I would ask you not to insult me on top of everything else. I am not the one here who commits crimes when things get complicated.”



No further thoughts were directed at him, not even a single one of the excuses and protestations Valjean was so prone to spout when caught in his criminal acts.



“If what you say is true then this only concerns him and me. Your presence is superfluous in this situation. Leave. Please.” Maybe icy politeness was the way to go because the delegation, after hesitation didn’t change Javert’s mind either - and with more unhappy stares - left.



Javert threw up his hands and then forced himself to fold them at the small of his back while he paced up and down. “Another day, another way to see if the gullible inspector will fall for one of your despicable charades, Monsieur Madeleine? Monsieur Bagnard! And your brethren, what do they expect me to do to you? You are a dragon, I am an unarmed man. Unless this mate business includes an inbuilt weapon I could not-” the words died in Javert’s throat.



For someone that weighed four to five tons and ran around on taloned feet, Valjean had been very silent because no sounds had betrayed his retreat further back into the room and up the ramp. He was smart enough to know, however, that not facing the irate former inspector would stir the ire even higher. While he had sought to be near his eggs as much as possible, the gigantic head was turned to face Javert.



Maybe Javert should see this as another manipulation, a deliberate reminder that they shared a clutch, but this particular man had always been defiant and proud, not the sort to hide behind others. Now he was watching Javert like a prisoner again, faintly trembling, carefully breathing, and otherwise unnaturally still. Waiting for the lash to fall.



It made further accusations die in Javert’s throat.



Javert had forgotten that while he might be the physically weaker person in this little drama, his words could - and had already - cut deeply. While he strove to be a just man, Javert had always tried to avoid being cruel.



Something he had failed at today. In his anger, he had stabbed at some of the other man’s deepest insecurities, just short of mocking him for not being able to keep his family safe. And now Javert struggled to find better words, less cutting, more honest ones.



“I am truly sorry. Please forgive my lashing out at you.” Not a sentiment he had ever thought would cross his lips, not directed at this man. “For someone who disdains people who let emotions dictate their bad acts I acted like a hypocrite.” He hesitated. That had not been good enough. “My anger got the better of me and most of that was not directed at you, but more at my bruised pride.”



They cautiously stared at each other. For all the often difficult conversations they had had in the last few days, it had never been this personal. 



Lacking bravery had never been one of Valjean’s weaknesses, so of course it was he that broke the stalemate. 

‘I honestly did not know. I was as surprised as you, but how to convince you? Once a thief, always a thief, once a liar, never honest. And I felt that if I could not, this would be the straw that broke the camel’s back.’

 



Javert inclined his head in assent. “That does not excuse my lack of control. I will strive to do better. For what it is worth, I know that I am safe with you. You would not lie to me out of malicious intent or just because you can.”




‘This is indeed a day for… surprises.’ 

Valejan hadn't relaxed his posture just yet. 

‘I never thought I’d hear you say something like that.’




Well, yes. Javert grit his teeth, uncomfortable with his own admission but clinging to his resolve nonetheless. “Don’t expect me to make a habit out of it. And I did not say that I think you are a honest man. You are

 not.”





‘Ah, still.’ 

For some unfathomable reason Javert qualifying his apology seemed to have a relaxing influence on the dragon.

 ‘Apology accepted. I know how much you hate feeling exploited and betrayed. We can only be hurt like this by the ones that know us best.’




“And then I nearly broke the accord we’ve built so painstakingly anyway.” Javert kept his movements slow and predictable and sat down on the other side of the nest with their eggs. He spared them a thoughtful once over and found no signs of anything wrong; that was at least something positive.



Faint tremors, nearly invisible, kept shaking the dragon. 

‘Well, as for me, I learned how it feels when someone you consider an… ally is suddenly someone to guard against. Something I never had to lose before. And now we are getting dramatic enough to audition for roles in the Opera Populaire.’ 




It was a temptation to accept that, even obviously forced, humorous way out of the treacherous conversational terrain they had found themselves in. “Hm, that would still be too prestigious an engagement for two fools like us. But for better or worse, we are together in this and I would prefer the ‘better’ option of the two.”



They sat silently until both of them had regained their equilibrium. 




‘Call them in, let’s see what else they have in store. I am heartily tired of this place and its surprises. I do not want to ever see it again and for that to happen we have to deal with them, 

non

?’




“That makes two of us,” Javert agreed full-heartedly. It was becoming a habit. “Shall we meet them in the middle of the room again?”




‘If you don’t mind I would rather stay where I am. They threatened, pardon, 


promised


 that they would examine us to determine if we can leave. The sooner that happens, the sooner we can depart.’

 Valjean hesitated and the newly won grim determination faltered some. 

‘You are not too displeased with the way your career has gone off the rails?’




“This way, I keep getting paid, and it isn’t as if my assignment is unimportant or without prestige, and I can stay with you and the eggs.” It felt too soon to add any remark about making sure that his children got the guidance towards a good character they would need, minus his horrible temper.




‘But I get the impression that it is not the high office you strove to gain. You were always much happier testing your wits and skills against criminals, not paperwork.’




There could be no forgiveness without atonement and Javert would pay in honesty. “Valjean, the gutter is where I was born. I always felt that it was luck and hard work that made it possible for me to crawl out. And that I should use my insight and familiarity with the dark underbelly of humanity to better myself and keep the scum off the streets so others can be safer. I best hunt what I know.”




‘There is scum to be found on every level of society, not just among the poor. You have come far in life and risen beyond the circumstances of your birth. And that without having to change your name and pretend to be someone you are not.’ 

The second sentence was added with a half-teasing, half-self-mocking air.



Javert sighed and rolled his shoulders, trying to work some of the tension out of them. “Hm, I do lack the creativity to pull off something like that,” he said, but softened it with a grimace that tried to be a smile. He had always been inordinately proud of the fact that he was honest, hadn’t he? Hubris. But now Javert suspected glumly that his mistakes were simply of a different kind.




‘I hesitate to say it, but maybe it would be prudent to get more than the word ‘mate’, but rather the full picture before we twist ourselves into knots. Our concept of mate might not match the draconic one fully.’ 

Valjean interrupted his companion’s musings.



That was not something Javert had thought of. “Good point, but maybe not today? There is a difference between procrastination and managing our resources wisely.” 




‘Agreed. Call them back in.’




When Javert stepped outside to prove that no, they had not murdered each other, only the wing leader and his medic stepped closer. The rest of their team were mingling with Goffinet and Rivette, caught in friendly conversation, too friendly for two fractions of people that had been caught in a state of détente for hundreds of years. Perhaps the camaraderie had been spurred on by the need to shelter from the rain with only a slim dry space underneath the narrow overhang of the roof. 



Not knowing what to say, Javert simply gestured for the two delegation members to precede him back into the building, and they did seem to be as eager as he to pretend this had been a scheduled break in their negotiations instead. 



“While we wait for the supplies to arrive, why don’t we use the lack of numerous people standing around and begin with the medical examination?” chirped the medic, friendly and beaming and so aggravating that Javert wanted to arrest him for his lack of appropriateness considering the pressure everyone had been under.



From the way Valjean seemed to try and make himself smaller, he was not feeling sanguine about this prospect. Javert could empathize, he hated being touched by people he did not know.



“Since we have established that we lack context, might I know how you are going to do it before you, I don’t know? Wriggle your fingers and use magic? What kind of medic are you?” If Valjean would not (and could not) ask and instead seemed to plan to simply bear it, Javert would.



“Are you questioning his competency? We told you he is the most talented medic we have!” Inéz glared, taking affront and defending his fellow Wing member’s honor.



The medic only laughed and smiled up at his companion. “Ah, Salvatore, imagine your reaction if someone we’d met only hours before tried to come near me, even in a professional capacity?”



“Agreed, but you’ve worked hard for your status and do not deserve the disrespect. You are the best physician we have. Other weyrs have tried to steal you!”



“And you gave them what for, you mighty warrior, so shush.” Treillard’s smile had gone down in brilliance and up in warmth.



That answered one question. No wonder those two had not batted an eyelash about the assumption of two men pairing up. If they were not mates themselves Javert would eat his hat. It also illustrated that their concept of mate entailed romantic attraction.



“And no, no magic will be involved at all.” Treillard had gone back to rummaging through his bag, taking out jars and metal contraptions that made Javert queasy just having to see them.



“Then, what kind of medic are you?” Javert asked again, voice carefully neutral.



“One that has studied and graduated at the Sorbonne, with honors. My certificate is at home, an oversight on my part but I did not expect to need it,” came the prompt answer.




‘Dragon medical studies are being conducted at the Sorbonne?’ 

An alarming concept, going by Valjean’s wide eyes, and it was not hard to guess why. Bad enough that doctors were known to pay for fresh corpses to be dug up for them to study, a truly atrocious practice. What would - or did?- those quacks do with dragons? And in secret! The mind boggled!



Javert repeated that incredulous question out loud, if only more politely, and the doctor halted in his preparations, a metal tube falling back into the bag with a clang.


“Dear Lord, how do you come up with things like that? No, regular human studies only, but some things are universal, and I did apprentice with one of our senior healers at the weyr beforehand. I just thought you’d trust your own society’s methods more. Let me assure you, I have assisted with over seventy hatchings and treated the birth parents with great success. I know what I am doing.”


Valjean did not relax but his attention moved from the doctor he had been staring at to Javert. 

‘Doctor or not, his bedside manner is atrocious, he lets his curiosity rule over his compassion. But if we trust his words, and there is not much we can do about it, he will know how to help our eggs if there is anything wrong. What do you think?’




Their connection would be more useful if Javert could answer the same way but alas, no such luck. “Fine. Doctor Inéz-Treillard, it is, hm?” he poked, trying to convey that he would not take everything at face value.



“Figured that out, did you?” Treillard nodded appreciatively and the sunny mien was back in full force. “But yes, we are mated. Happily so. I got used to not using my full name when venturing into the human world during my studies, to avoid making people uncomfortable. Since dragons have never been dependent on gender for procreation we never cared, but you are not that blessed. Should I start with you, Monsieur Valjean, or your eggs?’




‘I will go first,’

 grimly decided Valjean and used one wing to point at himself, then slowly stood up and took a step further away from the nest to give the doctor access.



“Good. Do you want Monsieur Javert to wait outside? Normally it is soothing to have a mate near but- ahem.” But with them having argued just a few minutes before it might not be calming at all, the man did not add, showing more tact than before.




‘No, stay! Please. And that one,’

 Valejan pointed at the silently observing Wing Leader Inéz, 

‘has to back up further away. I understand that he won’t leave his partner alone with us but I won’t tolerate him near my eggs.’




Everyone could agree upon that, with more or less grace depending on their temperaments.




‘Do you think Napoleon wrote the parts of the Code that deal with decriminalizing sex between men in that way so he would appear more attractive for the weyrs? I’ve heard he did try to talk dragons into joining his army.’




Javert had positioned himself with his back to Valjean, offering as much privacy as he was able while still being near, and it had not taken long before Valjean stuck his head over Javert’s right shoulder, carefully keeping the weight off. Like Gymont did when he wanted scratches. Javert obliged, reached up, and began to lightly rub the scaly neck while he thought about what to answer.



Waterloo, by all accounts, had been a drawn-out, complicated tug of war, and without some luck and allies joining at the right time the English would have lost, despite their superb general. The battlefield aftermath sounded like a bloody nightmare. Dragons would have turned the tide for sure in favor of the Imperator, but at what cost? And what kind of retaliation by foreign weyrs would have followed? “Maybe, but I also heard that it might be due to Napoleon’s infatuation with Alexander the Great and his male lover. I am not a scholar, as you very well know. But if he did it to please dragons, it was not enough for them to ally themselves.”



They debated back and forth in a low voice and low thought respectively, speculating about the likelihood of foreign weyrs ending their neutrality and what Napoleon Bonaparte might have intended and how the populace would have reacted. It was all about the past, so what did it matter if they were not alone?



In the middle, Javert realized that, beyond trying to distract Valjean from what the doctor was doing, he would not mind continuing this sort of spirited argument later, preferably in front of a fire and with paper and pencils to help him drive home that: no, military commands did not work that way, be serious Valjean!



Treillard finished with whatever he had been doing, went over to the water buckets, and scrubbed his hands. “Good news, everything seems to be in order, and in a few days he will be able to transform without any problems remaining.”



Javert stopped the absentminded continued scratches he had bestowed on… well, Valjean, and let his arm sink and stepped back. “That is a relief to hear, thank you. Due to his isolation nothing but the most basic information was available. Valjean has told me that he never expected to lay eggs at all.”



Treillard sighed. “Not an uncommon expectation.”



Uncommon? Numbers had never been Javert’s friends but seventy layings multiplied with three eggs was simple arithmetic. “I would not consider two hundred and ten a small number for one doctor and settlement.” 



“Slightly over seventy hatchings in about fifteen years, with only a few happening without my presence. In all of France and a good part of Italy and Austria. Five hundred and sixty-two dragonets.” Treillard carefully enunciated. “I did not lie about being the premier expert for our young. Even without the misconception you are basing your calculation on, it is barely enough to keep us from dying out. Three eggs,” he waved at the nest, “are a low number but typical for primevals. A regular clutch has seven to nine eggs.”




‘Seven to-’ 

stuttered Valjean, wide-eyed and incredulous. 

‘As much as I am grateful to be blessed with them, the thought of laying so many is not something I want to contemplate too closely.’




Neither did Javert. “Seven to nine,” he choked out.



“Oh yes! We have records from far back that talk about clutches with twelve eggs, but I have never seen it. Every viable egg is a gift and these little beauties here look mighty fine.” The doctor admired them without touching them, tilting his head this way and that. “No scale rot, no signs of damage. A little bit on the small side, certainly, but excellent luminescence and shine, you took great care of them with the limited supplies you had. A coat of linseed oil would not be amiss to help with keeping them flexible but we can do that at the weyr. You could do with a rub down as well.”




‘Um,

’ commented Valjean, followed by more incoherent stuttering.



Javert did not like the reprimand he thought he detected in the doctor’s lecture or the judgemental way he was staring at the dark brown dragon.



Treillard was not finished. “This is what happens when we lose track of clans! The elders should have known better and done more, not sit on their asses. And what does their inertia get us? A nest in the middle of a human settlement, a dragon that does not know his tail from his snout!”



Inéz pulled his shorter mate near and hugged him to his chest. “Please calm down, I know this topic is dear to your heart but there is a time and place and this is not it. But I do have to say, information about your clan, Monsieur Valjean, is something we do require, no excuses, it is too important to prevent something like this from happening again.”




‘Do you think they can find my sister and her children, or find out what happened to them? I was unable to unearth information beyond a few hints and rumors, nothing substantial. And do we actually want these people to find them? I don’t want to draw my family into another one of my messes.’




“I would guess that they are more interested in known dragons in your family and possible clutch mates if that is the right word?” He waited for a confirming gesture. From what he had seen of these people, they would not be overly interested in human fates.



“Yes, to both,” nodded Inéz.



“Hm. Valjean, I did search for your family myself, you can guess why,” Javert began. He could see the eagerness blossoming and did not like to crush it, but there was no need to foster false hope. “I am sorry to say that all I found is the mention of one of your nephews taking on an apprenticeship in Rhône and that he had one of his sisters in his custody, but nothing more, and they disappeared shortly after 1796 as well.”



By the time Javert’s inquiry had reached Faverolles, the minor scandal about the arrest had been long forgotten. Times were desperate and Valjean had not been the only person resorting to thievery. The only information Javert’s contacts had been able to report back was the faint collective memory about a poor family with unfortunate naming traditions. ‘That Jean bunch’ had been a memory left behind, the last members long gone, and nobody knew or cared where they had disappeared to. It had been difficult even to track down that one boy.




‘Thank you, that is more than I have ever been able to find. I do have hope that some of them survived and are leading a good life somewhere.’ 

Valjean lowered his head dejectedly. 

‘Everything that I know about my family tree I have told you. Feel free to share it with them. They cannot harm the dead.’




It had to be hours after midnight but the sky was still pitch black. At least the rainfall had lessened to a drizzle. The day already felt long and was not likely to get better.



TBC


 

 


The two delegation members paid close attention to what Javert relayed about Valjean’s family history, Treillard going so far as to unearth a notebook from his bag, and then rummage about for a pencil while complaining incessantly about the lack of table and chairs.



There would have been a proper office prepared, Javert thought uncharitably, if these people had more respect for procedure and propriety instead of knocking on a prison gate after midnight.



“Here, take this one,” said Wing Leader Inéz, and after some searching pulled the requested writing tool out of a fold in one of his deep sleeves, which made Javert blink in astonishment and wonder not only about the construction, but what else might be hidden. “But give it back after, please. It is dragons who are supposed to hoard things, not humans.”



Treillard and Inéz spent the next half hour trying to pinpoint which clan the Valjeans might have belonged to originally, and where descendants might be found now. The chances of being able to unearth documents with corresponding names weren’t high.rom the fragments Javert was able to decipher amid the torrent of words the two flung at each other, some of them seemingly getting lost on the way, scale patterns seemed to be hereditary to some degree, and those details were unlikely to be found in a Church registry - and dragon gossip hadn’t given them any clues either. 



Javert pulled out his pocketwatch surreptitiously and checked the time, their interrogators were too involved with their discussion to see or care.




‘Monsieur l’Inspecteur, I hesitate to ask, but would you-’ 




Maybe it had been the sharp stare, or the way Javert’s mouth had formed a firm line, that made Valjean hesitate. The first thought Javert had was ‘so much for not asking anything further,’ but then he nodded and made a go-on gesture. Neither of them was the same man from days ago.




‘Thank you. I don’t know how much if any contact I am going to have with regular France and there is something that I feel needs resolving.’ 

Another hesitation. ‘

It is a sore subject, I know, but would you send word to one of your colleagues? About a girl in Montfermeil.’




“I thought that was an excuse, or some hallucination of that prostitute's?” Javert formulated that reply carefully.



Valjean tilted his head thoughtfully. 

‘No, no excuse of mine at least. That poor girl was in such a state, seeing people that weren’t there, but she believed every syllable to be true. I feel responsible for her misfortune and for her daughter, who is now all alone in the world without any support or protection. Not a sentiment you agree with, I am aware.’




“No, I don’t.” It was better to say as little as possible about the subject.




‘But criminal matters and punishing perpetrators are of importance to you. Defrauding a young woman and holding her daughter hostage would count as deserving of your attention, yes?’ 

Sharp claws repeatedly scratched and released the planks underneath.



It caused the kind of sound that made one's teeth hurt. “According to her word alone, or is there any solid proof for such allegations?”




‘Yes, there is! Letters! I did not have much time to read all of them, but the nuns put her belongings into the bedside table and I sorted through them.’




Everything that did not need to be burned because of dirt and lice, Javert thought grimly.




‘Fantine said they would contain the address where her Cosette can be found. The couple she left her daughter with constantly demanded money, and some of the amounts looked far too high for the listed items. Due to my interest in the local orphanage I have more than a vague idea of what the upkeep of a child entails and they were asking for much more than is reasonable.’ 




Now that was the sort of calm, well-reasoned argument Javert could work with. “You are asking me to contact a colleague, ask them to investigate if there is something shady going on? It has been months, Valjean, there might be nothing to be found. But yes, I will do so. I have an acquaintance that works near that town and it will not take him long to ask the locals a few questions.”



Both of them were aware that people who exploited women like Fantine would not be kind to her daughter if there was nothing further to be gained by keeping her. But for now, nothing more could be done about it. “Tell me the address and what else you remember later. And the second request?”




‘Thank you.’ 

Another deep breath, another long release. 

‘They have not said anything tangible about my sentencing, have they? It was all nebulous. Would you please ask them what I can expect?’




That was a much more immediate and less maudlin worry. A prisoner had the right to know his fate within a reasonable timeframe; anything else was considered cruel. And Javert, beyond his stake in Valejan’s fate, was curious about how justice worked in the dragon world. Inéz should at least be able to tell them what to expect on a sliding scale even if it was not within his power to make a legally binding decision. Javert watched Valejan closely and nodded firmly. The reaction was an immediate, relieved sigh.



The need to point out that they could have had this kind of discussion much sooner, with less irrational shouting, was tantalizing, but Javert refrained; Valjean was still too skittish from their earlier argument. And, Javert had to admit, chagrined, that at their confrontation at the hospital Javert had not been in a frame of mind to appreciate anything beyond Valjean's spitting on the law, and might, maybe, possibly, have been driven more into a rage if Valjean had done anything to point out the bigger picture.



“The girl you were talking about, is she M. Valjean’s daughter?” Inéz sharply interjected while holding up his hand to silence Treillard who had also begun to speak.



“What? That is possible, impregnating a regular human woman?” Javert’s surprise was greater than the embarrassment of speaking of such. Not that he was a prude, no policeman patrolling the seedier parts of a town would remain one, but it was not something that should be talked about among strangers of status this openly. Discussing the eggs had been bad enough.



“Most of the humans in our weyrs have such an origin,” Treillard piped up. “But there has never been a pregnancy between a dragon’s male human form and another dragon’s female, isn’t that interesting?”



It was more than Javert had ever wanted to know about other people’s private lives, was what it was. He crossed his arms in front of his chest, his fingers moving restlessly.




‘Oh! So that’s why I have older siblings who were human. I did wonder.’




Javert hadn’t, he had simply assumed that Madame Valjean either had remarried at some point or had an affair. There was a considerable age difference between Jean Valjean and his older sister Jeanne.



“We are, again, drifting away from the original question, I fear,” Javert tried to corral the other three. 



Inéz nodded, a frown marring his face. “Yes, indeed. To answer the question, it is quite normal for dragons to procreate with humans and produce offspring the human way. We do value these children, which is why I must insist on an answer. Do we have to retrieve another child before departing for the weyr?”




‘I do owe Fantine, I am responsible for her plight. Doesn’t that mean that I should take her place and her responsibilities for her daughter as my own?’ 

Of course, the infuriating con was already poking and prodding this new avenue for subterfuge. All it would take to achieve one of Valjean’s ill-considered desires was one more bloody lie. 



A sharp sting interrupted his thoughts. Javert had to deliberately loosen his grip on his biceps, where his fingers had dug in enough to nearly rip the heavy fabric of his coat.



“Firstly, Valjean, no, you are not responsible for what happened to that… prostitute. She was an adult or you would not have employed her at your factory. Do not do her a disservice by denying her agency.” And secondly, don’t try to make me complicit in another fraud, he wanted to add, but waited for what Valjean would do next. Then he saw the way the mated pair was staring at him with identical expressions.



“And no,” Javert bit out harshly, taking a shot at the reason behind the speculation on the strangers’ faces, “I am not reacting this way because of jealousy!”




‘Tell them she is not my daughter by blood but that I consider her mine.’ 

And that was indisputably an order.



“Do not take that tone with me, Valjean! You haven’t seen the girl even once, know little besides what her mother called her, and that she is supposedly a minor. But in the interest of clearing things up-” He recounted, instead of repeating the message word for word, in as few sentences as possible, the pathetic tale of how Valjean in his guise as a respectable mayor had perceived a damsel in distress in need of a champion - instead of a whore attacking her customer - had overthrown a lawful arrest, and how said idiot had then carried the wretch to the hospital instead of jail, where she rightfully belonged. Somewhere in the middle Javert’s ire ran out, but the words did not. 



“She was raving at the end, hallucinating. And died before gaining any semblance of coherency.” And Javert had never spared her a second thought.



His audience listened attentively and without interrupting.



“What is indisputable though,” Javert slowly added, and felt Valjean’s tense silence express a whole novel in his head, “is that due to both our unprofessional behavior, the child’s plight has fallen by the wayside. Without getting distracted I might have investigated of my own volition.” Then he waited for the verdict.



The two delegates were both serious and silent for a change, even the irrepressible Treillard. Inéz grimaced and sent an apologetic look at Valjean observing them tensely.



“The reason we allow, nay encourage! human offspring with one dragon parent among our population is that we could not support our society with only dragons and their mates. They are too rare. It can and does cause some upheaval when a dragon who has previous… connections finds a mate and is additionally blessed with eggs, but that is a risk everyone is aware of. The other reason for encouraging human pregnancies is that such children grow up and have a higher likelihood of being compatible as a mate. While I admire your honorable intentions, Monsieur Valjean, we can’t promise to retrieve this girl sight unseen and without consulting the weyr leader. A blood relative we could have justified.”



“Be that as it may, I will have her circumstances investigated,” Javert said. While taking her in was excessive and a typical Valjean overreaction, something might indeed need to be done about Cosette. And culprits arrested. Which brought the matter back to Valjean’s second request.



“And Valjean can hardly look after 

anyone

 if he is serving his sentence in your equivalent of jail. Which you have neither fully negated, nor extrapolated on. What is his status among your people, and my status as the other parent of the eggs, in the eyes of draconian justice?” Javert asked.




‘If you can’t be diplomatic, be honest, if being honest does not work, be blunt.’ 

Valjean huffed.



“Our weyr leader will sit in judgment, not I, but they will base their decision on my recommendation. I do understand your frustration, monsieurs, so I will explain it succinctly. M. Valjean’s crimes aren’t considered more than lapses in discretion, not normally something that would involve legal action,” Inéz continued. “The exposure and endangerment of his eggs to your government can be seen as a result of his incarceration but it illustrates a concerning lack of wisdom regarding his choices. My recommendation will be house arrest for a year and, after the babies are a little bit older, a yet-to-be-decided amount of work profiting the community. He will have to prove his good character and continued trustworthiness.”



Apart from how dismissive they were being about Valjean’s crimes, that wasn’t unreasonable and it made Javert incline his head in appreciation. “Thank you. And your laws concerning my rights when it comes to the children?”



“You are not part of our society, which makes this difficult to answer and the lawyer guild will have a heyday trying to sort it out. There are going to be a lot of annoyed people who do not even want to consider giving an outsider rights over one of our dragonets. I wonder if diplomatic immunity applies. It is not considered polite to harm a diplomatic envoy, 

oui

?”



Valjean was still eying Inéz like a piece of 

stringy 

whale.

 ‘I am relieved by his answers, no question. But their attitudes are alarming nonetheless, is he joking that he wants to harm you because you cause him more work with your intentions, or is he warning you that your overall tendency to annoy people will lead to problems? I do not like the implied threat, no, the implied reprimand. He is not your superior and you don’t have to smile and bow unquestioningly. Answering an envoy’s questions is his responsibility, not an accommodation,’ 

he added sharply at the end.



A quick consideration and Javert leaned back, his brows drawn into a dark, harsh line. “The Treaty of Arras will need to be consulted, and how all and any historical precedents that document how all sort of… incidents involving both our races have been handled in the past. Our governments might need to parley for amendments no matter what, in case weyrs and the kingdom of France have more contact in the future, and that is something both sides seem to agree on as a goal? My case will not be the exception, just the first official example. It will be one of my priorities to collect information and pass it to my superiors, but first I will need to establish an office to work from.” 



And hopefully, someone in the diplomatic corps would send a detailed annotation and files, a code of conduct for envoys included. Javert had never been high enough in the hierarchy of the prefecture to interact with diplomats, but he had a vague idea that there were rules and regulations concerning couples from different countries. What he suspected and did not want to voice, was that it looked very much like the dragons were in the practice of regularly absorbing French citizens into their society without consulting the Crown, and that was shady. The mountain of books he would need to read was growing by the minute. 




‘Treaties like the Treaty of Arras can only be brokered between countries or country-like entities,’ 

Valjean said and then sent him another observation, and Javert repeated it aloud nearly verbatim this time and only too gladly.



“Without the approval of both our peoples’ leaders, an official envoy could not have been called, which means that a small piece of territory will be accorded to France, similar to an office for your people in Paris in turn. An envoy does have to respect his host country’s customs and rules, but he is not subject to them.” And biting an envoy would start the sort of diplomatic incident they all wanted to avoid. Which meant, yes, Javert had to have at least partial diplomatic immunity.



Inéz bowed, showing no sign that he had fully understood the rebuke. “As you say. And for all of that to happen we need to reach the weyr and the weyr leader, otherwise, the particulars will stay in flux. Let us commence with our preparations.”



Not only Renault knew when it was best to take a step back, Inéz knew to do so as well. They exchanged a few more polite words, Treillard urging them to tell him the second they remembered more details.



All those speculations about an office, fully realized embassy or not, had given Javert one tangible problem to solve that was more in his sphere of past responsibilities: the question of staff. No police station was worth the name with only one inspector to man it, and no embassy could be expected to function with only one man either. As soon as they were alone again, the Inéz couple having gone outside to work on their departure, M. Javert, envoy, shared his thoughts with a certain former criminal.



A mayorship did share some overlap with an ambassador’s job, both being highly political but on a different scale. As it was due to the man that Javert was in this quagmire, it was only right that Valjean should pay him back by advising how to stay afloat. It was in both men’s best interests to make this work in their favor. How to, Javert sighed, fake it until it all became real.



Valjean was only too happy to promise that he would help where he was able.



But about staffing his office- “I’ll return shortly, stay here. I do have to meet Renault about more paperwork. God help me.”



The dragon nodded placidly and then returned to guarding the nest.



Just outside the opening Javert was greeted by two of the people had planned to seek out, how fortuitous. “Monsieurs, you are who I was looking for, some questions for the both of you.”



Goffinet and Rivette straightened. “Sir?” they questioned politely, nearly in unison.



“About the states of your secondments, are you still under my command? If yes, for how long according to the captain of the guards, and would you like to stay on as security staff for the new envoy office at the Black Talon Weyr? It will not be as prestigious as it may sound,” Javert warned. “And I have to ask the commissaire for further details, like your salary. You would have to interact with more dragons, maybe even fly on a dragon’s back if the weyr can’t be reached on foot.”



“Truly?” Goffinet was the first to recover. “Don’t know about the flying business, Sir, that's… alarming but I would like to stay on. I promise to do my best!” His young face was glowing with excitement. “Don’t have a family, won’t matter how far away my post is. And it would be much better than here!”



“I can’t promise anything, but I can forward your name as a consideration.” If Javert had to do this, he wanted two guards he knew would be eager to learn and of friendly temperament. “Rivette?”



“It would be an honor!”



“Well, then I know what to ask the commissaire. You two will guard M. Valjean and the eggs in my absence. Consider them my family, you might have heard that by rescuing the eggs I have become their father, that rumor is true.” No way had that little detail not made the rounds.



“No harm will come to them!” promised Rivette. “Not if we can prevent it, you can count on us!”



Javert bowed his head and then strode in direction of the commissaire’s office. Renault had said that he would be available if needed, and it was time to find out how much of that was polite hyperbole.
 



++++



It took more than an hour before Javert returned, his head swimming and a heavy dossier with files and sealed orders in his possession. Renault had been awake and working, in expectation of some of the issues the poor envoy was going to face and in the company of M. Prevost-Noailles, newly arrived from the ministry with emergency paperwork, one of the documents bearing the royal seal. Both men assured him that two guards were a reasonable request. Them, a secretaire, and appropriate furniture to outfit a small office in a way that would not embarrass France would be sent to Grenoble, any correspondence would also be expected to be exchanged regularly via the town.



Not one word about spying was said, nor much about Valjean. A lot about Corbeil. Nothing about how Javert, in his mended greatcoat, scraped hands, days old wrinkled inspector’s clothes and polite but hardly high-brow mannerisms could never be what was expected of an envoy. Renault praised him for his conduct instead, and bragged how the former inspector had forged a connection to the temperamental dragons with his instinctive way to relate to them! Any other day Javert would have been delighted by such positive attention from a high-ranking officer, today he had problems maintaining a calm facade.



Valjean, on his return, had patiently listened to Javert’s plight but could not offer more advice than that only time would tell how much of the political games were posturing and how much they hid dangerous agendas. He shrewdly added that, from a certain point of view, Javert’s involvement and background might be seen as a blessing in disguise by quite a few people in Paris. Inéz and Treillard might not have treated the former inspector like a member of a weyr, but neither was Javert a complete outsider because of the eggs. Would the weyr leadership have been as amenable to starting negotiations now, after centuries of silence, without his involvement, or accepted another person as envoy?



If Javert bungled it up - any mistake could be blamed on his lack of expertise. The king’s cabinet would be able to heavily imply without losing too much face that Javert had been the dragons’ choice in the first place. He had no influential connections that would cause a stink if he got bitten or dismissed and the ministry could always send someone else in his stead. 



Javert listened and shuddered. Maybe Valjean was wrong in his speculations but he could be right on the money just as well. Politics, what a dirty game.



With not much else to do, the strange pair settled down in the opening of the wharf building. Everyone but the two observers were preparing for departure and the quay was filled with delegation members and soldiers running to and from.



Inéz-Treillard, Javert thought, and watched the man with rising irritation, was intelligent, well-spoken, and passionate about his profession. Not the worst attributes when someone was a doctor. A skill he had not mastered was when to shut up.



At least it wasn’t Valjean or Javert who was currently the recipient of so much intrusive and embarrassing curiosity. 




‘He would not last a night in the bagne.’ 

Valjean had been observing the medic as well. 

‘Not because of a rotten personality, but someone would have taken exception to his babbling.’




The man had to be in his forties, he should know better by now. At the moment he was lecturing an unfortunate guard about his personal hygiene and telling the man that if he washed everywhere as diligently as he did the head above his shoulders, the one south was likely to sprout similar pimples and didn’t that have to be uncomfortable? He could mix a salve together so it would itch less, if the soldier wanted?



“I wonder how Treillard survived to adulthood,” mused Javert.



Someone who had been nearing the entrance laughed. “By having Salvo, his personal muscular and protective shadow, never more than two steps away. They met very young and have never parted since. Otherwise, Treillard would have to set his own nose regularly.” Alistaire, at least that was what Javert remembered the man’s name to be, held out a bundle of peculiar triangular bags made of thick leather.



“Here, nestlers for the eggs. We don’t like to transport eggs but if we need to do it, these are the best option. One of our artisan cobblers makes them.” He opened one to show them off. “We brought enough for nine, the empties can be used for transporting small possessions instead.”



“Thank you. I won’t need much space and I do not want to weigh down the dragons unnecessarily. Unless - would you be so kind and consult on the kind of weyr-appropriate clothes I might want to pack, or buy? Though, acquiring them might delay departure.” Javert took the container, turning it this way and that. It had been made of thick leather with all seams on the outside to reduce ridges, soft fur lining on the inside, a fitted cover, and enough straps and buckles to subdue a whole group of unruly criminals. They looked like they could be attached to the leather harnesses being readied by two wing members.



Alistaire shook his head. “I doubt the local shops offer clothes that will suit your needs. The sort of breeches you are wearing aren’t made for dragon riding.”  



A commotion, the medic gesticulating widely, drew all of their eyes. The pimply soldier was now beet red in the face and his friends were laughing.



“His bedside manner is atrocious. But I tell you, Treillard does not have one mean bone in his body. We are all excited to have found you five, and him most of all. M. Valjean will want to carry the eggs himself, so I’ll need to show you how to handle the harness and put it on M. Valjean; we have one that can be adjusted for a primeval,” Alistaire went on. “But after you’ve filled these, eh?”



Javert nodded assent and after murmuring his thanks went fully back inside and up the ramp, knowing that he was being followed closely by Valjean while the stranger stayed respectfully outside.



“Let’s get them into these, they look more comfortable than the nest,” Javert said.




‘Indeed. They will be able to be transported far more easily than in a basket, which-’ 

There was an unhappy pause and then: 

‘Don’t let the nestlers out of your hands and maybe use ribbons or something to mark them clearly.’




Sometimes having someone with a corkscrew of a mind at your side was an advantage. It did not take Javert long to puzzle out Valjean’s reasoning, and he retrieved one of his spare neckcloths from his luggage, brought over from the barracks earlier. In short order, he had three thin black rags that would not look too out of place fastened to the lids of the nestlers. Not that it was likely, but if they got mixed up with the other six, he would be able to distinguish them.



He put one opened nestler down, picked up one of the eggs, and rubbed it gently, cradling it against his body for safety while contemplating how to best relocate it without jostling.




‘Oh. He likes that. Keep holding him for a bit.’

 Valjean commented. 



An egg that contained his son, who liked being picked up. How… strange. 



Javert shook his head but spread his fingers for better purchase, suddenly happy for his hands’ unusually big size, normally an embarrassment. A week ago Javert would have arrested anyone stupid enough to tell him this would happen, for their own and the public’s safety. His own mother could not have seen this in her cards. 



But he couldn’t sit here indefinitely and two other eggs were waiting, so he slowly lowered the egg into the waiting nestler and then kept his hand on top for a bit, feeling slightly foolish.



“Have you thought about names?” At least one bit of normal conversation among expecting parents, eh?



Valjean squirmed a bit before answering. 

‘Benedict and Aaron for the boys, if you agree? Both mean miracle, which is appropriate.’ 

It was not surprising that Valjean would choose biblical names. 

‘Ionnes would fit as well but I don’t like how it sounds, too harsh, and for the girl-’




“Mireya.” Javert blurted out. Spanish was one of the languages Javert could speak fluently beyond cursing, aside from French and Picard. He picked her up next. “Unless you object-”




‘No, it is perfect.’




Outside, the chaos had changed into organized productivity. “‘M. Javert? We are ready if you are as well,” Alistaire called out to them.



“Give us a few more minutes!” Javert shouted back and continued with his task until all three eggs were secure.



The nestlers had shoulder straps for ease of transportation, otherwise it would have been impossible to handle them all at once, but not wanting to hand them over to someone else necessitated some change in plans.



Javert stood aside, the nestlers at his feet, and watched Valjean being strapped into a harness. He had declined to do it himself, he would have had to leave the eggs unsupervised, and Valjean had agreed to hold still for others. For a certain amount of ‘still’; he constantly started to fidget only to freeze again and then repeat. 



“Is it impeding your movement? Try it!” someone on the dragon’s other side called out. 



After a look around and pointedly waiting until everyone was standing far enough away, Valjean reared up and began to flap his leathery wings.



Dawn was near, the horizon showing the first signs of color other than inky black through cracks in the cloud. There was enough natural light combined with the strong lamps of the wharf to get a good comprehensive view of his form. It was a powerful display but made exceptional by the immense control Valjean was showing. Not once did he leave the ground more than a few inches, nor did his wings clip anything while he twisted and turned, testing the harness to its limits.




‘Please tell them the saddle is tilting to the right side, it should fit tighter.’ 




Javert needed a second to swallow and lick his lips, his mouth had gone dry before he could convey that message.



“M. Valjean will fly in the middle of the convoy and follow our directions,” Inéz gave the harness a final once over before nodding his approval. “M. Javert will fly with Alistaire.”



Corbeil, trussed up and sporting a gag, was being guarded at the sidelines, ready for transport.



‘

No, you will fly with me. Getting separated is unacceptable. You aren’t that heavy and I have eaten well for the last few days and I’d rather not dive after you into a ravine if one of them dumps you,’ 

Valjean grumbled.



For some reason everyone agreed easily enough to that change of plans, making Javert nearly ashamed of always thinking the worst of these people, while they showed him how to climb up safely after he had secured the eggs.



The saddle had little in common with the designs used for horses. It did seem to have chambers and layers, but most of the thing was geared towards keeping a rider steady by offering indentations that would snugly cradle limbs and support a rider’s back, not towards conveying commands to the dragon. 



Allistaire flung up a voluminous, heavy cloak and a fur-lined cap. “It gets cold high up!” he explained and stepped back. 



Renault and his guest had arrived in the middle of the spectacle but had kept back and were only now coming near, clad in their parade uniforms, their faces carefully neutral. Bows and polite phrases were exchanged all around, well-wishes and elaborate expressions of gratitude among them. And then it was time for the delegation and their charges to depart. Guards and officers cleared the quay so they would not be in the way of four more dragons transforming.



Some of the clothing choices suddenly looked less like affectation and more like practicality. The four draconic delegation members, with no signs of shame, slipped out of their outer robes. The open seams at the side made them easy to remove, the same went for the fitted tunics underneath, billowy trousers and leather slippers. And they had forgone undergarments, Javert noted and averted his eyes. 



And maybe he should not have; he had been curious about the transformation and missed it. The wharf, not lacking space on any day, was suddenly filled to capacity with colorful dragons, to the awed excitement of the watchers. None of them were matches for Valjean in size and wingspan and they did have more limbs, as expected. If Valjean looked like a giant black bird crossed with a reptile, then these four were more the lovechildren of snakes and winged horses. Or oxen and rams instead of equines, going by the giant and frankly kind of bizarre-looking horns on the dragons’ heads.



And their colors! Rich, dark jewel tones mostly in the green range, with Inéz as the exception in a deep garnet red. Stealthy they were not! They made up for it with spikes and sharp teeth, in one row only, and those club-like endings on their tails would be brutal in a fight.



Where adjusting the harness for Valjean had been an involved team effort, the four weyr dragons were saddled very swiftly. Treillard was the last to get ready, climbing up onto Inéz’s back and waving the command for them to move into formation.



Getting up into the air was jarring, Valjean flinging himself upwards with his powerful hindlegs and then pumping his wings to create enough velocity to thwart gravitation’s grasp.




‘Are you all right?’ 

the dragon’s concerned voice reached Javert. With no other option for reply - the wind would rip away his words before they could be heard - he reassuringly patted the neck in front of him.



Javert took one last look down at Toulon, which was getting smaller fast, and then gripped the pommel of the saddle, smiled at the nestlers, and then leaned forward towards the future.


 


END Part Two


 