Title: the gladness of his heart
Work ID: 8913379
Author: jvrt
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Trans Character, Trans Male Character, Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
I found him whom my soul loveth: I held him, and would not let him go.

Work text:

Valjean's sweating, panting heavily as his hips rock of their own accord every so often. Javert's behind him, chest to back, with an arm wrapped around Valjean to pin him in place. He's buried deep within Valjean and staying painfully, teasingly still as he bites a hickey into the base of Valjean's neck. 


“Have you been good?" He asks, left hand splayed across Valjean's chest, as his other hand moves from Valjean's hip to between his legs. “Do you deserve this?"



Valjean chokes on a whimper as Javert's fingers find their way to his clit, nods quickly and shakily as the fingers press gently just beside but never quite 

there. 




“Say it," Javert demands, teeth and tongue and lips scraping along Valjean's shoulder.



“I’ve been good," Valjean breathes, “I’ve been good I’ve-" he gasps as Javert presses one finger to his clit, rubs it 

just so

, then stops altogether. “I’ve been so good I promise I’ve been good I’ve- fuck- I’ve done my best I haven't done anything wrong Javert please please I’ve been so good-”



“Have you touched yourself?" Javert asks, punctuates the question with a thrust of his hips.



Valjean gasps and rolls his head back to rest on Javert's shoulder. Javert kisses his neck and Valjean feels like there's no air left in the world. “Not since- ah, Javert, please- not since you told me-" he stops himself, bites his lip and hisses as Javert slides both his hands to Valjean's hips and starts to move them.



“Use your words, Valjean," he says, calm as ever. 



“Not since Saturday when we- when I was on the bed and you watched and told me what to do and- ah, please, 

please

," Valjean's eyes are shut tight and tiny explosions go off behind his eyelids. He's too hot where his skin is in contact with Javert's, and too cold where he can feel beads of sweat run across his chest, down his abdomen. Javert's hands are just this side of painful on his hips, and at once he wishes both for a grip hard enough to bruise and a touch that's feather soft.



Javert kisses the mark he's just left on Valjean's shoulder. “You promise?" He's icy calm, the only giveaway that he's affected is his swollen cock inside Valjean. When he stops thrusting, Valjean can feel it pulsing inside him. He squeezes tight around it just to hear Javert's short gasp.



“I promise, Javert, I wouldn't- it's not worth it when you're not here, oh god I can't, I can't, it's not the same it's not good it's- ah, fuck, 

fuck-

"



Javert's speeding up, thrusting his hips up as he pushes Valjean down, hitting the right spot with every beat, and Valjean's hiccuping, about to cry. 



It’s been almost a week, Javert had been at a conference, and usually Valjean wouldn't be so desperate but Javert called him every night and told him just what he was doing, alone in his hotel room, and Valjean had done nothing but held his rosary, bit his knuckles, and prayed.



It's not something Javert's ever particularly cared about - Valjean not touching himself when Javert isn't there - but Valjean insists on it, needs to know he still has the self control he used to cling to like a lifeline.



He doesn't feel the shame anymore, not when he's here like this, but alone it's different. He doesn't need to do this when he's alone. It's an indulgence, not necessary. But when Javert is here his blood burns hot and his skin is on fire, every nerve ending begging for the chance to make up for lost time.



This is why he's whimpering and tears are gathering at the corners of his eyes, now, as Javert tells him he's been good.



“What do you want, Valjean?" He asks, and he's whispering straight into Valjean's ear now, biting gently on his earlobe and Valjean feels his entire body shiver. “Tell me what you want.”



Valjean shakes his head. “I can't- Javert, please, I can’t."



“Yes you can, Jean," javert says, and Valjean gasps at the use of his name. “You've been so good, now tell me.”



Javert's hold on Valjean's hip tightens and Valjean hopes for bruises. Short fingernails dig into his skin and Valjean clutches at Javert's thighs, unable to grip because everything's so hot and sticky and 

wet

.



“I want you inside- ah, inside me.”



Javert chuckles slightly, right in Valjean's ear, and says, “I’m already inside you.” He pushes his hips up hard, and Valjean mewls and shakes his head.



“Want you to-" he laughs a bit, unable to just 

say the words

. “Want you to come inside me, please Javert, I need it I need you to- God, fuck, it's so good I can't I can't I need you I need all of you everything inside me please please-"



Javert's quiet for a moment, his panting breaths all Valjean can hear, and he thinks 

fuck. I’ve ruined it. But it should have been fine there hasn't been anyone else there's never been- and he's tested and it's safe it's not like I’m about to get pregnant he knows that he's just- it's not proper it's not right he doesn't want this not the way I do he doesn't understand-




His thoughts are stopped by Javert moving his hands to Valjean's shoulders, lifting him in a way that shouldn't be possible and before Valjean knows it he's on his back, Javert above him, and Valjean only has a moment to mourn the loss of Javert's cock before he's pushing inside again, hard and deep and just right, and Valjean can't stop himself from gasping. It's only then that he realises Javert is speaking.



"-how long I’ve waited for this?" He's saying. “How long I’ve wanted to make you mine, mark you, christ Valjean it's been years - you're so wet, so good for me - you're so tight and hot and god you're beautiful Valjean do you even 

know

-" 



Valjean cuts him off, pulls him down to kiss him hard, lips and tongue and teeth, and there's a trail of spit connecting them even as they pull apart for air.



Javert's got one hand by Valjean's head, holding himself up, and the other hand slides down Valjean's body and gently strokes at his clit, he presses his thumb against it and kisses Valjean as he shivers.


He’s given up any pretence of being in control now, panting into Valjean's mouth and murmuring words like mine, and beautiful, and love.  


Valjean's got his eyes closed and is swallowing Javert's words, trying not to reply with any of his own because he knows if he starts he won't stop. He wraps his legs around Javert's hips, cants his own hips upwards to allow a better angle, and he moans in delight when Javert slams in harder than before.


Javert kisses him again, then moves to his throat and murmurs something before biting down. Valjean thinks, distantly, that he's going to have to wear scarves for a while. 


“I’m going to-" Javert's saying, and he licks at a bead of sweat on Valjean's collarbone. “Is it- do you want-" his fingers move faster, press harder.



Valjean shakes his head. “You first. Please, please, I want- you first," he scratches at Javert's back, runs a hand through Javert's hair and tugs just a little. Javert closes his eyes and dips his head, his hips stutter, so Valjean does it again. “Need to feel you, please, so good, so good Javert please I promise- ah- Javert, love you, I love you, fuck, Javert, oh-"



Javert kisses Valjean and moves impossibly faster, and faster, until his hips lose all sense of rhythm and stutter and stop completely, then move slowly in and in and 

in

 and Valjean gasps as all at once he feels Javert release inside him, Javert's teeth on his lips, and Javert’s fingers on his clit, and it's almost too much, he's shaking all over and then:



“I love you too, Jean,"



And that's it. It's over. Valjean closes his eyes and white light explodes in his vision and nothing has ever been this good, nothing can come close to this again, he's hardly even in his body, the feeling is coming from all over and in and around him, he can't breathe and doesn't need to, he's at once feeling far too much and nothing at all, and he wonders how he thought anything was good when it wasn't 

this

.



When he feels like himself again, Javert is lying beside him, running fingers through his hair. Valjean feels himself smiling too much and he breathes out a laugh as he realises just how sticky everything feels.



He finds enough energy to hum in disapproval when Javert sits up.



“I’m going to get a cloth," he says, and kisses Valjean's forehead. It feels ridiculously intimate considering what just happened. “The bed is disgusting. We'll have to have a shower and change the sheets."



Valjean huffs. “I’m never getting up again," he says, and Javert rolls his eyes as he leaves the room. 



“Javert," Valjean says, and Javert stops in the doorway. “I really do love you," he feels naked as he says it, not only his body laid bare but his soul too.



Javert's eyes widen, a tiny smile on his lips, and in the hallway light Valjean can see his cheeks have turned slightly red. “I love you too," he replies, looking into Valjean's eyes and really meaning it. “But that doesn't mean you don't need to shower."
