Title: The Red of Rebellion
Work ID: 46488307
Author: jolras
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Courfeyrac/Marius Pontmercy, Minor or Background Relationship(s), Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier, Javert/Jean Valjean, Combeferre & Enjolras (Les Misérables), Courfeyrac & Enjolras (Les Misérables), Combeferre & Courfeyrac & Enjolras (Les Misérables), Grantaire & Marius Pontmercy, Enjolras & Javert
Additional Tags: Javert is Enjolras' dad, Enjolras and Cosette Fauchelevent are Siblings, Dad Javert (Les Misérables), Javert and Enjolras have the best parent child dynamic, I think that is so overlooked, Prince Grantaire (Les Misérables), Rebellion Leader Enjolras, Courfeyrac and Marius are idiots, Les Amis de L'ABC are an organisation, And the Amis all have a role, Enjolras is soft for his friends, Javert and Valjean are married, Gavroche and Grantaire are siblings, Enjolras is an Idiot, Everyone is except Cosette and Eponine, Rebellion, Enjolras as the face of the Rebellion, zero clue how to tag, Healthy Relationships, Enjolras-centric (Les Misérables), Grantaire-centric (Les Misérables), Grantaire & Marius Pontmercy Friendship, They are basically best friends (they understand each other), Platonic Life Partners Combeferre & Enjolras (Les Misérables), Mayor Jean Valjean, Loosely based on the 1800s, normal people stuff
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 7/?

Summary:
As the greats have yelled, “Long Live the Rebellion”, a mockery of greetings to kings and royalty.
Or,
Enjolras is not a deadly threat to the entire country's political stability, not at all.Grantaire may or may not be the prince of said country.
Oh, and Marius and Courfeyrac are idiots in love.

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Grantaire made his way around the masquerade, weaving through the crowds of guests. The candles casted an amber glow on the room, giving it a warm feel that was only present in sight. 

Bahorel wasn’t too far behind him, making polite conversation with the various masked nobles. Though Grantaire was aware Bahorel’s eyes never really let him out of sight, doing his job as Grantaire’s personal guard.

He supposed he’d never really gotten used to that. 

And really, he supposed, he should’ve. Growing up as a royal and having a multitude of eyes trained on his every move, one would normally have learned to ignore it by his age. Then again, not many princes drank themselves into a reputation spread far and wide.

He decided he could look for Marius. He was probably somewhere in the middle of the ballroom, freckled face, dazed, and perpetually confused looking. Grantaire half expected to see his secretary with some noble lady fawning over him, albeit always a little too condescendingly, always a little too pitying. His eyes were slowly searching the scattered groups of people. They wore halfheartedly put on masks, defeating the entire purpose of a masquerade. Then again, Grantaire wouldn’t hide his identity if he had all the money and power, with no one to scrutinise. 

When the crowd parted, like a shitty opening to an opera, he was left with the sight of his friend with one of those sappy, incognizant smiles on his face. 

Oh. 

There Marius was, looking absolutely love stricken. Like the stars had fallen out of the sky and to his feet at his very command. 

A mop of brown hair had revealed itself alongside him, one of those charming smiles plastered and directed at Marius. And Marius, with his ever long gangly limbs elevating him slightly taller than the other, had the expression of a dog who had just caught a ball that was thrown.

He had been betrayed, utterly abandoned, treasoned. He sulked, because that was the logical course of action you did when your only friend had ditched you for love. Now, he had no one to lurk around the edges of the reception with, and without a partner to laugh at the various tripping hazards dresses provided. 

On the bright side, he had some good material to annoy the brunette with.

Slipping into the ballroom, away from the traitorous bastard, he decided he would at least join the crowd once, before finding his way to the bar. Joining them would appease his parents (he didn’t really care, he had long since ruined their expectations), he would pretend he was going to end up with some pretty girl, and inherit the throne as a respectable royal would.

It may have helped that he enjoyed the act of dancing.

The ballroom was brighter, chandelier hanging high and bringing the marble carvings on the ceiling to light, moving with a life of its own to the tune of the flames. It was a pity how the art that someone once must have carved with care, being seemingly forgotten. Though, odds were the sculptor didn’t care at all, going through the notions.

The slow waltz that had filled the air began to change, a grandiose and mellow crescendo, like a composer giving a final bow, to a light and airy tune. Grantaire moved away from the wall, catching another person at the edge of the ballroom as he made a curt nod over to the floor. As she came closer, he found that he recognised the lady. 

The mayor's daughter, Cosette, ever graceful in high society. Wouldn’t they make a pair.

She smiled sweetly at him as they made contact but she had a look in her eye. One that Grantaire couldn’t quite decipher, threading the fine line of hostility and kindness. Her honey blond hair floated as they spun, and somewhere in the back of his mind, he thought of a vague resemblance of Artemis as a collection of high cheekbones and blue eyes bore back into his. Her disposition and nature was nothing but sweet, which pulled him into a reminder of a certain traitor who had left him here to suffer. He was sure they’d made a fascinating sight, equivalent of a contrasting majesty of day and night finally intertwining. 

Or maybe some sort of morbid fascination at their differences, both in looks and personalities.

The song was beginning to fade, and he’d found himself bowing. They had shared a little nod, much akin to the beginning of their little dance, and he’d found himself passed on.

It was grand, but even the brightest of stars and flames grew dull with time, and everything tended to eventually lose its colour when repeated unwillingly for years. He had enough stepping away from the flurry of dresses, the once bright colours once having competed for his attention had dulled over the years. 

It was this state of grim reflection that sent him knocking into another man. It was when he stepped back that he felt like he had just been knocked out of breath, plagued.

Pierced by Apollo’s arrow.

Looking eternally unamused, eyebrows cinched, and bright golden hair. The same kind of high cheekbones and blue eyes Grantaire had seen earlier, except these made the man in front of him seem godly. He thought about asking if he’d model for a painting.

The other stumbled back, and Grantaire briefly wondered if statues could move. The movement of the god broke Grantaire out of his (surprisingly not drunken) stupor. Maybe he could ditch the bottle if he was confronted with a god.

The statue looked mildly apologetic, muttering something along the lines of vague apologies.

Grantaire grinned, maybe he could find some good company after all.

“Why don’t you come with me, to make up for it?”

“It wasn't my fault, though.” the other huffed, with no real intended audience, but Grantaire had caught it anyway.

A commoner. 

(Grantaire had assumed, from the callousness and lack of roundabout words. No aristocrat in their right mind would huff, much less in front of a prince. Hey, he never said his disguise was good either!)

“I never said it was you who was making up for it.”

“Fine.” The stranger looked petulant as his eyes narrowed in suspicion, arms crossed.

Grantaire had to hold back a laugh at the sight. 

They found themselves at the side of the ballroom, next to a table of appetisers, once again watching the hurricane of dresses move around the ball, which seemed a little brighter now with the light of Apollo next to him. The other was stiff, now arms uncrossed, and reminded Grantaire of the humans Medusa had turned to stone. 

“Enjolras.”

“R.”

“..your parents must hate you.”

“It’s a nickname, Apollo.” He popped a cracker into his mouth.

He watched Enjolras’ face scrunch up. He was sure it was putting creases at the very top of his nose, right in the middle of his eyes underneath his mask. The ever present crease between his eyebrows got worse.

“It’s Enjolras. You might want to get your ears checked, Dionysus.” 

Being compared to the god of wine, he was sure Enjolras knew who he was. And was taking full advantage of the masquerade to pretend he didn’t, considering his reputation for being a drunken prince has spread even to the commoners. Then again, commoners never got to see royals up close, and certainly not often. So how would a commoner even recognise him and much less get invited to this? 

He settled on the theory that the other was probably a scholar, invited by one of the aristocrats here. 

“You're quite the hothead”

If his play on words went unnoticed, all the better.

(Hot. head. He wasn’t lying, the other had great hair. And face. And well, head.)

Apollo scowled.

“Aw, what are you so mad for?”

“I’m not a hothead.”

“Sure right okay..” He raised his hands in a mock surrender position, in an attempt to jokingly placate the angry god.

The other crossed his arms again, posture turning into one of unamusement, twinged with hostility. Ouch. Grantaire didn’t know if he was grateful to have learnt to read body language, or whether he would have rather not have known.

(It was necessary for ‘threat identification’ as a royal, Javert had claimed.)

“So.. who are you?” 

Enjolras raised an eyebrow.

“Enjolras.” He swore he saw the edges of the other’s mouth tug up a little.

“I would sure hope so. I meant what do you do.”

“Isn’t this a masquerade for a reason?”

“Well then, what are you known for?”

"Oh.. that. You'll see soon enough.” A look of distraction seemed to settle on Enjolras. 

(One Grantaire would learn to be from thoughts about the rebellion.)

Grantaire was just about to inquire what could possibly be bothering a god. He would’ve, but Enjolras had seemingly returned back to the present, sending him a small grin that made his heart convulse for just the slightest, when Enjolras raised a hand..

..and snapped. The chandelier, from where it was hanging ever so grand, crashed.

Perhaps Grantaire could make up some metaphor for it, if he wasn’t so caught up in the majesty of it all.

Dust plumed as people rushed to move out of the way, tables turned over as the chandelier sat there, surrounded by metal shards. Distant shouting echoed in the room, peppering the sounds of plates crashing.

He turned back to possibly apprehend the now identified rebel, but when he did, Apollo had all but ascended again.

(So much for threat identification.)

In the storm, he watched a red flag wave in the eye of it, steadfast in the midst of fury.

His gaze moved to the person holding it, standing on the grand piano and surely leaving dirt all over it, was Apollo. Like his wrath had been the cause of it, the righteous anger of a god had upsetted the earth, because foolish mortals have been to anger the deities. Did gods even trek dirt?

(Javert was probably not happy about this, some snarky voice in the back of his head chided, but what could he do? He would mind the lecture of the importance of never leaving knights behind later.)

“LONG LIVE THE REBELLION!” 

Boy, Grantaire was fucked.

Two figures were at his side, down below Apollo’s makeshift podium. Dust and flames from the chandelier had mildly obscured his vision of the event, but Grantaire could briefly make out the figure of the boy talking to Marius earlier.

Great. That made the two of them in love with rebellion members. 

When he tore away his eyes from glory, he watched the faces of his fellow nobles contort into a mix of horror, disgust, and condescension. The assortment of food in a long banquet tipped over to his side, and Grantaire was forced to jump back.

He saw the face of a concerned Bahorel stumble to him, trying to push through the various nobles who seemingly thought they were invincible. 

(Somewhere, Grantaire’s heart ached at the thought that he was the one to make his friend worry.)

It wasn’t long before the guards ran in, slamming open the door, led by an enraged Javert.

A scream ran through the air, bouncing off the marble walls and arched ceiling like a fleeting deer, quick and flighty.

He watched as Javert let out a long suffering sigh, as he directed a few of the guards over in the direction of the scream.

When had he started being moved? 

He vaguely registered Bahorel dragging him by the scruff as he stared at the flag, now still, the flag bearer having been pulled down from the heavens. Being grounded as they grouped and somehow, it looked like Apollo himself was convening and descending to aid the mortals that followed him.

One of the three, the only one he didn’t recognise, threw something that started smoking. Not unlike an Oracle, he seemed to have immediate insight on what the god had needed.

Through the smoke, he barely caught the three escaping, smog escalating as the national guards ran over, but they had been long gone. 

Later, he found himself actually listening to Javert’s lecture.

“So.. what did you say about the rebellion again?” Javert sent him a disappointed look.

 

 

 

Enjolras was content.

That was not something that happened often, because really, how one could be truly happy with the state of the people and with a dictatorship going by a monarch, is beyond him.

(That was a lie, sometimes happiness could be found by simply being next to his friends.)

The operation had gone well, the chandelier had fallen on cue (dramatics were always important to make a lasting impression). Cosette created a distraction right on time so they had legroom for their escape, Eponine had rigged the chandelier just right, and Combeferre had planned each escape and distraction to keep them from getting caught. And the rest of the members had caused enough chaos and damage to the rest of the ball.

Thanks to Combeferre bringing a smoke bomb planning their escape route perfectly, they would get back to headquarters in no time. 

Joly would be waiting for them to patch up and fret over any injuries they’d have. His twin would join them later, no doubt sending the guards on a wild goose chase before disappearing herself. Gavroche was no doubt distracting his parents, the little prince faking tears, to wound the monarchs. Eponine would convince the court to pin the blame on the Thénardiers, hopefully freeing their serfs, followed by Jehan writing about the arrest of the Thénardiers in no time, along with the many crimes of the family. It wasn’t the most permanent solution, but it would hold them over until they could dismantle the monarchy and the corrupt system.

He couldn't help but marvel at their progress. 

What had started as a group of three, had expanded into an actual organisation whose very existence was rebellion. As the face of it all, he was big enough of a threat that the colour of his jacket and the cockade were associated with the rebellion. He took a great sense of pride in that. Part of the reason his jacket had gotten so infamous, was his refusal to wear anything else when it was unnecessary. It was a perfectly good jacket! He wasn’t one to perpetuate the wasteful habits of the aristocrats. (Cosette could attest to that, as he gently reminded her to donate her old dresses). 

As mayor Valjean’s son, he was supposed to be high profile but instead of that, he took it a step further to be nationally wanted. His dad (the one that is not a mayor) would have a heart attack if he knew, being the head of the national guard. In the early days of the rebellion, Enjolras had gotten Jehan to write multiple articles talking about how the rebellion leader had taken to imitating the mayor's son. So he was also wanted for identity theft.. of himself. He had already made a name for himself with the nobles as eccentric and reclusive, and Cosette had gone to the events anyways to represent their family, it was all the more reason to avoid the pretentious balls and keep his face out of the public eye.

So, he would say the operation had gone smoothly.

Well, except Courfeyrac had maybe, possibly, definitely, created a liability by going out of his way to flirt with the royal secretary.

And possibly now they were being chased by said secretary.

He was starting to regret telling Courfeyrac that he could tag along.

“Wait! I’m not mad!”

Enjolras scoffed, it was an outrageous thing to say. 

But when he turned back to yell, it took all he could to not facepalm at Courfeyrac actually stopping.

He skidded to a stop, his feet digging into the soil. He turned to stare at the newcomer, while behind him Combeferre crossed his arms, unamused at the display before him. 

“..you are not?” Courf looked bewildered, a small confused smile on his face as he stared.

“Don't worry about it. Really, don't. It's just an object, it can be replaced..” He looked at his feet, making a small dent in the dirt.

Of course they could, because millions of francs was just a drop in the bucket for the bourgeois. Except it was all at the cost of citizens perishing. 

Courfeyrac looked like he was going to somehow split his face open with a grin. 

“Would you write to me?” Pontmercy trailed off, tentative. “I mean.. I wouldn't take it to heart if you don't..” He seemed to steel himself for a potential rejection, like he didn’t see how smitten Enjolras’ friend was. “I'm aware we just met, and perhaps you wouldn’t want me to know your address but–”

(Enjolras would come to understand later, that no, Marius couldn’t see pining if it hit him square in the face like a brick because he was utterly oblivious.)

Courfeyrac opened his mouth, clearly going to say yes.

 

Enjolras cut in. This was as far as he would let it go, he was happy for his friend but he would not let this jeopardise the organisation. 

“No. Are you trying to get us killed, Pontmercy?” By reminding this 'secretary' of how writing him would actually risk losing his newfound sweetheart, Enjolras knew Marius would think twice before doing so.

It was dangerous enough as is, without the meddling of palace workers, without giving out their location and without more liabilities.

Courfeyrac shot him a pleading look, and Enjolras felt a migraine coming.

“Pass your letter to Eponine, she’ll know what to do. Don’t try anything. It wouldn’t be nice if you were outed as a traitor and informant.” 

He was sure the sigh he let out was audible but Marius and Courfeyrac looked like dopey idiots at the end of the sentence, despite the threat that was just spoken.

He mock gagged to Combeferre as they watched Courfeyrac place a big, sloppy, kiss on Marius’ cheek in parting. It followed with Marius subsequently going red, blush travelling all the way up to the tips of his ears.

Enjolras thought he looked kind of stupid, honestly.

“Now, if we have had enough of compromising our mission.. Shall we?”

The night ended with the both of them dragging Courfeyrac back down their initial escape route.

This is something I’ve been worldbuilding on for a while, and is based off another au that i had. If you'd like to talk about it or hear more about this au, you can contact me on my tumblr.

Thank you to Ferre, for helping me add tags to this.And Marius, once again, for betaing, editing and giving me inspiration for.. Well Marius.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Les Amis De L’ABC were the heart of the rebellion.

And Javert was going to catch their little leader once and for all.

He had spent the night running through all the previous incidents involving the damned organisation. They were good at hiding their tracks, they always pushed the blame on some noble, so they took the place. Not long after the allegations, they would be exposed for corruption. Though, they couldn’t hide forever, and soon the law would catch up to them. Javert would see to it.

“It is 3am, dad. Christ! Why are you still awake?” 

Enjolras had stuck his head in his office, almost knocking a pile of papers sitting on the drawers. His bed head was still prevalent as he turned his attention to Javert. (One tended to pass out after an operation out of exhaustion, but Enjolras had stayed up after the operation going through potential outcomes). They were both aware that Enjolras was being a hypocrite, it was obvious who Enjolras had gotten his work ethic from. Where did he go wrong?

“The same could be asked of you..” Javert grumbled, looking back to his paperwork, it was bad enough without the identity theft of an aristocrat.

“Well.. I was getting water before the light from the office blinded me.”

Javert rolled his eyes, but found himself being herded upstairs and to his shared bedroom.

The Rue Plumet was small, what Valjean would correct as ‘cosy’, being made of 3 bedrooms and two offices. At the start of their ‘situation’, he and Valjean had occupied two of them. As the kids grew up and when they had as, what Cosette called ‘gotten their sh- stuff together’, they moved into a single bedroom. Enjolras and Cosette were thrilled of course, being at the age they wanted their own rooms. At the coming of nightfall, not even hours after painstakingly redecorating and painting their rooms, they had cried, wailing as they refused to part. When Javert checked on them with Valjean, there was a moment of panic when Cosette was gone from her bed, only for them to realise she was slept right next to Enjolras. 

Before he had entered his bedroom, Enjolras had managed to reach up to poke him in the cheek. Children. 

“Night dad, don’t let the night monsters bite!” How did his kid manage to come up with a worse version every time? 

“Goodnight, Enjolras.”

Javert woke up to the sound of shuffling. 

Whoever had tried to be discreet clearly wasn’t doing a good job. He sat up and grabbed his glasses from his nightstand. Valjean had made him stop by a peddler after he had mentioned some signs being blurry on one of their walks. It was a delicate little thing, thin wiry frames that sat on his ears with no weight. He would still forgo wearing them as he worked, it would still be a safety hazard if they broke (and because he didn’t want to break something Valjean had bought for him, he was not an ingrate). The green wallpapered walls framed the room, the windows still covered the curtains as he put on his glasses.

When his vision began to focus and the sleep shook away, he saw Valjean slipping on an older worn button up. He cleared his throat, and watched Valjean turn to him in surprise, as if they hadn't done this every weekend.

“I’m going to make breakfast, would you join me?” 

“Of course.” 

After a quick wipe down, he made his way down the steps with the quietness of one with experience of not disgruntling his kids (a sulky Enjolras would protest at that, Cosette was somehow a decent sleeper). Valjean set a cup of coffee on the counter for him, and it was no surprise after all the years he had realised that Valjean was a saint. A kindly man who was able to look past his stone heart, when he could barely do so himself.

Cursing at Enjolras for getting him hooked on this stuff, he turned to watch Valjean as he opened their cabinets. For all he talked, he was surprised Enjolras even liked coffee, rich privilege or what not. Perhaps the other was simply just as addicted. It had added at least a sizable amount to their expenses (It had not). Even with all the worry from Valjean on not going outside, and nagging from Javert about leaving the kitchen a mess, Enjolras had still refused to get out to coffee shops. Claiming that it was a bourgeois privilege with how exclusionist it was, he stayed at home trying new recipes and leaving Javert as his guinea pig.

It was good coffee.

Cosette on the other hand, was the darling of society and it made Javert realise how fast the years have gone. Seeing her go to events in their place, and flourishing put a sense of pride in his heart. She had taken both of their best traits, being well read, kind and well mannered. Javert enjoyed their walks, on days where it was quiet and he had a rare break. 

Enjolras, however, seemed to take pride in being the problem child. 

The kid somehow seemed to inherit both he and Valjean’s worse traits, especially their dedication. They were both bright, but there was almost a constant worry that Enjolras would fly too close to the sun. He always found himself dragged around to different places, and they had probably gone to more cafes than any other family combined.

Enough about his children. He sounded like Mary from next door, who had her kid’s photos in her wallet, that she would unfold and pull out every time she saw Javert. He didn’t have baby photo’s of either of his children. They were adopted.

(Enjolras had a photo taken of himself, and snuck it into Javert’s wallet once. It is still there. Cosette followed soon after.)

He was somehow roped, he seemed to be getting dragged into many things recently, into flipping pancakes as Valjean set the table. 

He had never been a domestic man, yet he had been consumed by it. Like an alluring monster which carefully blinded, dragging you into it’s comforts. He supposed if it wasn’t for them, he would still be out in the cold somewhere, submitting to the law. He would still uphold the law, now with the dedication of a man who wanted to make the world safe, for his family.

Valjean looked as if he had seen through Javert, smiling. Javert loved how much he was a family man, having a nice and caring side that put him among the angels.

It was shaping up to be a good weekend. He would deal with the so-called Les Amis de L’ABC’ later.

 

Marius was freaked. 

Pacing in Grantaire’s bedroom, his hair was a mess from running his hands through multiple times. And honest-to-god he was shrugging on and off his coat. Grantaire was bewildered, leaning back on his bed. This would have all been normal, welcome even if it wasn’t seven in the morning. This should’ve been illegal. If it did become illegal, he would have a grand total of zero friends.

Marius groaned, hands reaching further into his hair. “The rebellion leader steals the identity of the mayor's son!”

“How.. is that possible?”


See, Marius made a bad detective. Grantaire had visited too many allegedly haunted houses to count, because of his ‘sleuthing’. Nevertheless, he sat up, leaning forward putting his elbows on his knees, hands supporting his head.

“The mayor’s son never shows his face at anything, he’s rumoured to be eccentric and he’s extremely reclusive! I’ve never seen him at an event, and he barely ever leaves his home”

“If Javert heard you saying that, you would be lucky to have your head in one piece.” Grantaire snickered, who knew what ditch they would end up in, since he had also been implicated by listening to Marius. “Of course you haven’t seen him, you were too busy staring at your little rebel boyfriend.” 

Marius flushed, a choppy red as he moved his hands out of his hair to pinch the bridge of his nose. “I am not encouraging that rebellion, I'll have you know.” 

Grantaire had only grinned in response. 

His secretary’s tone only became more urgent. “You have to watch out for this rebellion leader! Everything points to him committing identity fraud!” 

“Right.. he’s a national political threat and the identity theft is the crazy part to you?” The very idea of a rebellion leader committing identity fraud felt a little out of proportion. If you were to start a whole rebellion, wouldn’t you go all the way and take credit as such?

“You have to come visit him, for your own safety of course..” Marius was doing a horrible job of hiding the fact he wanted to see this ‘elusive’ rebellion doppelganger as well. 

Not that he wasn’t worried, if anything he was extremely so. The ball had scared Marius, even if he was courting a rebellion member himself. He was also allowed to be worried for Grantaire’s safety first and foremost, it was also still his friend as well as his job.

And to be honest, Grantaire was decently curious too, an Apollo duplicate?

“Alright. Wait- Now?!” 

They began walking, the mayor’s house wasn’t too far away. Marius had gotten the information easily, being the royal secretary afterall. Grantaire wouldn’t have had the effort to do so himself anyways. It was precisely this trust in his friend that caused Grantaire to be unaware of one thing. That they hadn’t given a notice. 

It was a bright Sunday morning. A bright day off for most people.

Their scenery over to the mayor’s house was peppered with blue hyacinths, splattered haphazardly on the grass, clearly thriving from the river next to them. They walk along the river, making easy conversation.

“You know, they even say he’s a disgraced triplet of the mayor!” Marius waved his hands in the air, hands flying like wet spaghetti as he exaggerated the nature of the rumour.

Now, Grantaire thought this was getting very conspiratorial.

They had arrived not long after, Hermes there spouting conspiracies all the way the whole time they were travelling. He knocked on the door, and Grantaire could faintly hear bustling on the other side.

What he didn’t expect was, Apollo duplicate himself, reclusive mayor’s son and all, opening the door all bleary eyed. Golden curls cascaded in every direction, reflecting the light of the sun, and Grantaire felt like was soaking up every ray of Apollo’s mighty being.

Apollo duplicate was in his nightwear, red in a way that almost reminded Grantaire of the rebellion, like he was draped by the flag itself. That was to be expected with a duplicate of Apollo. Grantaire couldn't push down the red that was levelling in his face, they were strangers, and yet he had already seen the other in night garments. 

Grantaire briefly entertained the idea of making it a crime for faces like his to be kept from society. Though, on a longer think, his face may have been the reason he even hid at his home anyways.

“..wha” Was the first thing that came out of the boys mouth. How very succinct.

It was clear that they had interrupted a very domestic scene. 

The blonde slowly takes in the situation or attempts to, rubbing his eyes and blinking a few times. It was as if he had just stepped into, and had just begun processing the world. Grantaire watches as he takes out his glasses from his front pocket and puts it on, when did it even get there? He didn’t have time to ponder it as his mind went blank. 

They were right. He looked eerily similar to Enjolras. But he was missing the brazenness of the real Apollo.

He didn’t understand how anyone could phrase the guy as eccentric in a negative way. If anything it had been endearing, meek, and homely.

In the background, he briefly smelled batter, the sound of sizzling ringing in his ears. But more prominently, the nightwear. The blonde’s eyes widens, perplexed before..

“Dad! There’s people that want something to do with your work.”

And lo, Javert appears, and Grantaire feels like a wave has washed over him. Like a thundercloud to the sun, he blocked out the light of the sun, leaving him in a cold shadow. He grumbled as he came over, looking ever the part of disgruntled babysitter, even on weekends.

Right. He fundamentally understood that Javert was his father, but he couldn’t help but question how they had been related. They did always say that Mayor Valjean was a saint.

Javert looms in front of them, looking livid. This could’ve been a costly mistake. (Would prince corpses even sell for that much? That would be the end to the royal bloodline). They had effectively interrupted what looked to be family time, for work matters with no warning. The guard was strangely seclusive about his family, and Grantaire could see why. 

They had just stepped into a bear den, and Javert bear was clearly not happy about it.

Javert quickly schools his features, surely because it would be rude and possibly treasonous to look so in front of the prince. "Sorry boys, you don't have an appointment."

Grantaire is only half paying attention when he speaks, the sentence struggling to pull away his attention. Then, he finally did, only to find Javert mostly looking to Marius, ‘boys’ having been mostly referring to his secretary. It makes sense, as he was too busy looking at the Mayor’s son anyways.

It was precisely this attention that led him to watch Apollo duplicate half asleep, mumbling, and complaining next to Javert, turning back to presumably get himself some breakfast. Marius is left to explain the situation by himself. Javert continues to frown at Marius, unamused.

Grantaire makes him lie in the bed he made. 

"We had to come unexpected to avoid the chance of information leaking and the rebellion leader messing with this meeting" Marius puts on a brave face, firm, having planned this.

Javert looks like he’s impressed, just the tiniest bit at Marius’ explanation, posture shifting and shoulders slumpimg. Grantaire hasn’t been happier about someone sounding like a guard. He had relented, a rare sight to see. 

"Fine, come in." 

He steps back from the door, and Grantaire and Marius get a view of the guard’s home. It was a comforting abode, the living room and kitchen sharing the same space, dark oak cabinets high above their counters. 

There’s a drying rack next to the sink, dry plates sitting there along with mugs and it all looks strangely domestic.

He loses all sense of thought at the sight of the mayor's son. 

Marius shot a look at Grantaire. The other gained a look. Marius recognised it as the same one Grantaire got when he got a painting idea in the middle of meetings. He sees Javert noticing this, face hardening. He calls over to the kitchen where Grantaire can see him grabbing pancakes. 

"Enjolras! Get dressed!"

Of course his name is Enjolras, that was what the rebellion leader called himself too.

“If I have to, Cosette does too! And they were the ones coming in uninvited! They should deal with it!” Enjolras protests, blatantly disregarding him. 

They end up having breakfast with The Valjeans.

Marius doesn’t blush at the sight of Cosette. (She was in nightwear! Does she know how inappropriate that is?). Tearing his eyes away as Javert glares at him, he clears his throat and starts to address the issue, pointedly ignoring his distracted friend.

Marius guides the conversation, to focus on the reason they were even there in the first place.

“Do you know why the rebellion leader chose your son to imitate?”

In the corner of his eye, Grantaire sees the twins secretly exchanging glances, some sort of confusion or concern. And Grantaire is beginning to see the similarities between Apollo and Enjolras 2. 

The mayor frets over the issue, hands clutching the sides of the table as Javert talks about business. They seem to balance each other out well. Cosette looked strangely unbothered, though Grantaire could chalk that up to her already having heard the rumours from being in high society.. Strangely enough, no rumours have ever mentioned the rebellion leader being apollo himself. Though Grantaire wouldn't mind being the only person who had come face to face with the god. Enjolras 2 seemed to be barely holding up his fork and knife, gingerly smushing the pancakes in a vague attempt at cutting it into pieces. He was surprised he didn't fall right into the pancakes instead, perhaps that would be a better way to consume it.

Grantaire barely says anything as he sits there, unfocused and barely notices Valjean looking at him with concern. He shoots what he hopes to be a reassuring smile, and sees the other nod in return.

God. Both the Enjolras versions are so pretty. He begins to truly take in Enjolras 2’s features. The rebellion leader could very well be a triplet. He stares and stares, watching as the other groggily tries to blink away his sleep. The glasses only served to remind him of the mask the Enjolras 1 wore. 

And that’s when it clicks. 

They were the same person. Even for identical twins, it would be impossible for the both of them to have the exact same cheekbones, hair and crease between the eyebrows. Though, their personalities seemed to vary differently, maybe the rebellion leader was just an act? 

He still isn’t paying attention to the conversation, in favour of staring instead. And you may be asking, if it wasn’t obvious, what is he thinking about right now other than a national threat to political stability and his very own position?

Enjolras.

There was something candid about this, and Grantaire almost believed he was no god. Somewhere in the back of his mind, seeing how domestic it was, with Enjolras like this. Made him long for a commoner life. Maybe he should consider abdicating.

He catches a tail end of a question from Marius. He shakes out of his thoughts and has to engage in the conversation. He doesn’t get to individually reflect on seeing Enjolras like this. It is only when they start walking back, that Grantaire starts activating normal brain functions again.

So.. fuck.

So began the mental debate. That was him, that Apollo of his. What would he even do about this situation? Tell on him? Grantaire had no proof and he wasn’t about to be called the prince who threw people in jail for grudges or much worse, a snitch. What grudges would he even have? Considering this ‘reclusive’ mayor’s son hasn’t even seen him until now. Apollo would get killed. How would the world turn without a sun in the sky?

He’d just... Wait and see what happens. 

He turns to Marius, pausing on the road. “So. You may be right about Enjolras 1 looking unsettlingly similar to Enjolras 2.”

Marius looked displeased, pausing alongside him. His face scrunched up into one of vague disagreement and general unhappiness. “No, the mayor's son is Enjolras 1. And the only real Enjolras.” He seemed to pause, his face screwing up even further. “That's not even the rebellion leaders' actual name! Why is he Enjolras 1?”

Grantaire just shrugs. “A conspiracy, maybe?” 

 

Enjolras finally wakes up, despite having been awake for two hours. He never really does until sugar or caffeine was in his system. He isn’t panicked. The prince had no solid proof, and with the rumours he could just argue the rebellion leader was getting what he wanted by framing him.

He was supposed to head to headquarters soon. Headquarters being a large house given to him from his father, mostly collecting dust before he turned it into ABC headquarters. It was the perfect cover. No aristocrat would work to take themselves down, and they had the power to stop it.

While most of them lived at the shared house together, Enjolras still stayed with his dads. He probably would do so until they kicked him out, or they found out he ran the rebellion and proceeded to kick him out because of it. He loved his dads, and they would be stuck with him until they had made a show of opposition otherwise. 

He would make it work with the rebellion. The rebellion would always come first, but it didn’t mean his family should be discarded. They were equally as important.

On days where his dads had work, they had breakfast together early, so they could see each other off before everyone had left to do whatever they had needed to. He had maybe just failed to tell his parents that he was running a rebellion, is all. The other half, when he had either woken up early or stayed over at headquarters, he spent his breakfast with his friends laughing and chatting.

They had a new operation to run, and Enjolras wasn’t about to risk his friends doing it for him. They had to remain anonymous. Enjolras wasn’t sure if he would be able to come up with a reason why another doppelganger was out there and running amuck. 

They start meetings on weekends later the usual schedule, mostly because most of them loved sleeping in. (Except Combeferre, for some reason). He has never been more grateful for anything else. 

Except gaining his fathers. 

As he makes the walk over to headquarters, jacket safely tucked into his messenger bag, he reviews the scene from his half asleep memories of their visit. A pleasant surprise bubbles within him when he finds that Grantaire doesn’t question anything. On his second replay, he realises the look of recognition in the prince’s eyes.

He knows.

The hell? The real question was why exactly Grantaire didn’t tell. What kind of any self respecting prince didn’t call out an obvious potential threat. Much less someone in the rebellion colours, looking like a clone of said rebellion leader. Was he an idiot?

(Yes.)

Enjolras shakes it off, shelving the thought for later as he reaches headquarters, their brown door standing out in stark contrast to the bricks. Idly thinking that Jehan did a great job with the red yarrows on the windowsills, he pushes shut the door, the other side being painted red.

Combeferre and Eponine greet him as he removes his jacket from the bag and shrugs it on, looking every bit like the rebellion leader he was. He grabs a pen and the pieces of paper shoved into his bag, hanging his bag on their many coat hooks. (They had at least 7 people living there permanently, so it was to be expected). 

He joins them as they move to the large table in their living room, which they had taken to also using as a meeting room. A blackboard hung directly above a sofa, facing Enjolras with a palace layout drawn (courtesy of Courfeyrac, but no doubt directed by Eponine). They had stickmen for each of the threats and people on the map, the Royal Guards having angry faces, and Eponine in her library with a tongue stuck out.

Sitting on the couch, he looks expectantly towards Combeferre. This was where his friend was most in their element, being able to plan out every detail to prevent mishaps. Pen and paper on his lap, he prepared for their briefing to start.

Eponine had chosen to sit on the table, something about lesbians and their hatred of chairs, or something. as they listened to Combeferre explain the route they would take and the fail safes in place. 

It was nice watching his friend light up, finding joy in concretes and finding solutions to various problems. Eponine had contributed with tidbits on the royal guards' habits, and by the end of their discussion, Enjolras had a small grin on his face. It would be alright. Get in there, steal the documents, and get out. 


They wouldn’t even need to kidnap anyone! Courf would have another victim soon enough. Inevitably, they’d have to play ‘good cop bad cop’ again (Enjolras obviously being ’bad cop’), when Courfeyrac charmed and captured their targets.

They’d always have to do a little dirty work, it was a package deal with the whole ‘illegal’ rebellion thing.

Normally, it was preferable if they had gotten Eponine to sneak the papers out. As the sentry to the royal library it was easy for her to provide necessary documents. The royal guard had seemingly been itching to find a culprit, risking suspicion could mean they lose their only spy. Even if a ’harmless woman’ wouldn’t be suspected, they could never be too careful. 

If, when it worked, it would make a good headline, relating to the world that the upper class were not as untouchable as they thought. Jehan would have a field day. Information shouldn’t have to be restricted to the aristocrats, and if the royal guards were unashamedly able to put safety over their pride, it would be met with scoffs and shame.

So that left Enjolras, resident wall climber and intruder, to complete this operation.

“Oh he has NO idea what cosette is upto hdhshsh” -Marius"Ur fic is very hard to tag lmao Especially with all of these... unconventional aspects of Ur fic”"this fic is very... Normal LMAO""interesting definitions of normal people stuff""so tf am i supposed to tag" -Ferre"I think it might be too many quotes smh" -Marius

Marius did not want me to name this "Javert is a Raincloud". Too bad.

Even though I have planned out a good chunk of this au, it is all really hard to classify. I like to think that most of this is just ‘normal people stuff’, and that it is just a look into their lives.

If you'd like to talk or hear more about this au, you can contact me on my tumblr.

Thanks to Marius, for beta-ing, editing and giving feedback.I couldn’t have done it without you.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Grantaire had snuck out of his room. Sure, taking a walk at three in the morning wasn’t the most orthodox thing to do, but who cares. He was a prince and he would do whatever he wanted. That was something his parents instilled in him, as long as he didn’t affect the country, upset the nobles, or interfere with the law. Being a prince, he had to act like it or it would be a sign of weakness for a future ruler. Though he wouldn’t know, he was never cut out to be one. He could deal with the guards later, he was safe within the walls of the palace.

He somehow ends up wandering through a specific corridor, eyes lingering on the ballroom that had now been semi wrecked. The maids had made quick work of the banquet tables, but the chandelier still lingered, like a whale of metal that refused to stop clinging on. Wishing that he could have painted the scene as it happens, he tries recalling every single detail but the only thing that came to mind in clear detail, was Apollo.

It wasn’t due to the wine.

Grantaire had been beset with thoughts of the rebel. Like a raven that clawed and pecked, picking at him and refusing to leave until he had given in. The image both mortal yet inhuman as he waves the flag of change. He doesn’t realise the fact that he has stopped, body still as he rids himself of the view in his head. He was stood in the middle of a shadowy hallway, the candles have been blown out due to the fact that the corridor wasn’t fully enclosed. The side of the hallway opened to the palace gardens, arching and tall, granting him a wide look of the sky. The only thing that keeps him company are the cypress that stood tall to the wind. 

He leaves where he was rooted to, in favour of trekking out to the gardens. The wind is harsh, blowing through Grantaire's hair and making his eyes water as he bravely marches on, shoulders tense as he determinedly walks around, with no real purpose.

(He was drunk.)

The night blanketed much of the gardens, leaving the air cool to clear his tipsy mind. He mindlessly stares at the red gardenias, which clung onto their stems stubbornly even in the wind almost refusing to release. Before he knew it, he was reaching out to grab the head of the flower, hand open.

He stops, leaving his hand floating mid air as he half sobered up. 

His thoughts take a different turn, the world crashes into him and he stops mindlessly admiring everything around him. 

What was his role as a prince? He knew better than anyone what his position was. Who and what he was supposed to approve of, what to say and when. This had been crucial from the start, being able to read the other side, wasn’t that how he figured out how to talk to the rebellion leader in their first meet? As a prince, he was to stay out of how justice and the law were to be carried out. He had excused himself, having others do his work for him, precisely for the reason so he wouldn’t get meddle up in ‘criminal activities’. His place was not near the law. 

Look where he was now, pathetically thinking about the rebellion leader and his looks. He hadn’t even talked to him properly yet. 

He could refuse to take the throne. No one had expected much out of him anyways, his reputation would forever precede him, no matter where he went. Would it lead to a state of civil chaos? He doubts it. The rebellion would jump at the chance.

Enjolras would. Ever since the revelation earlier in the day, Grantaire had been trying his best to avoid thinking about the matter, or his face. He doesn’t see the point, he had known the rebellion leader as such from the start, Apollo‘s light transcending rationale as he stares and ended up doing nothing about it. 

How could a god be wrong? Grantaire had gotten all the information that he could ever have needed, from Marius. Who else but Marius? Their cause seemed idyllic, too much so and almost naive in a sense. 

He doesn’t disapprove of them, he knows he should but he isn’t afraid to admit that they have a point. Their dedication was something to be admired, that was for certain. Who wouldn’t want to follow a god, who wouldn’t want to look up and admire a statue, who wouldn’t want to follow Apollo himself as he stands on a podium talking?

(it was a mistake of Marius’ to tell Grantaire about the speeches.)

Marius would most likely be disappointed. It wasn’t supposed to be like this, his secretary’s disdain for the rebellion was meant to be something they shared. He knows not to get more attached, because how would an organisation stand strong when the royal guards found out? 

Anything would be easily destroyed with enough force. Everything would wilt and crushed in time, be it flowers or the fire of rebellion.

Right. Apollo was Enjolras. And Enjolras was Javert’s son. It seemed more than a little hypocritical for Enjolras to use his position to get away with it, if he was getting away with it that way. He doesn’t think he would, just out of some righteousness, it wouldn’t do good of an example if a god were to stoop so low.

It stirs up some conflict within him, because he doesn’t think Javert would work against him. The man had spent years of his life in the force, beginning a little before Grantaire was born. He’s not sure if the man would go easy on his kids, especially not about something so important. How did Enjolras get to this point with a father like Javert? 

What did Enjolras think about this whole situation anyways? He dug his feet into the ground, putting his weight on his heels as his eyes fixate on the red flowers. Would Enjolras like these? Would it match his coat? Did it really matter that he was a rebellion leader? It wasn’t like Grantaire took his role seriously anyways. 

He expects the rebellion will make short work of the royal reign. They would be efficient. 

He sits on the dirt, slumped over and facing away from the flowers, gazing at the arches, now from the outside. He can feel a flower hanging next to his head, lightly tickling him as it moves from the breeze. He was already tired of sobering up. At least it was dark, no one would see the dirt stains and correct him for sitting like the lowlife. Life was much better when he could just blindly admire the flowers, without life obscuring his view.

What he doesn’t expect is coming face to face with the god that afflicted his brain. 

Looking every part of prey staring down the barrel of a gun, he sees the other freeze out of shock.

Enjolras seemed to meld into his role of statue again, but now cloaked in black, like the night sky. Blonde hair shimmering like the stars, and what was the moon if not just a reflection of the sun? 

He sits up straighter, and all but regrets the better view it gives him.

The night sky seemed to bow to the sun in front of him, conceding their shadow to the god himself. Like they had done it willingly, out of love for the golden deity. Had the stars always been there? Had they only appeared to please the god, excitedly crowding the sky to get a glimpse of the him, which light radiated and shone so bright?

He doesn't know what to say, other than the very name of the man who stood in front of him. 

 

Enjolras considered all the ways he could escape. Maybe he could walk slowly, so that Grantaire thought he didn’t see anything. What sort of prince takes midnight walks especially with no guards? 

“Apollo.”

Enjolras surged forward, putting his hands on the other's mouth, preventing the other from speaking.

“Do you want us to get caught?!” He whispers angrily, because it was a them situation now. His head is reeling, shooting with a million possibilities which Combeferre had not planned for.

Grantaire peels his hands off him. There's a fire in his eyes as he drops Enjolras’ hand.

“..Yes? I'm here with a rebel?” There were no real threat in his words, considering he had lowered his voice into a whisper, matching their volumes.

“No..” He pauses, choosing and articulating his next words carefully. “You’re here with.. An aristocrat”
He sees the prince get an almost smug look on his face, going from looking surprised to smirking. “See, nobles wouldn’t refer to themselves like that”

Enjolras is still standing close to Grantaire when he sees a figure behind the prince, on the other side of the garden, and he knocks them both flat. His heart rate has starts speeding up, feeling the effects of adrenaline, the sound of blood rushing in his ears begins to get more prominent as his palms sweat. Shit, since when had the prince looked this good?

He pushes off Grantaire, face red and splotchy.

He only now realises that the flowered bushes behind Grantaire made up a hedge maze. He hopes Grantaire wouldn’t be a threat. He risks it, treating the other not screaming as a sign. He’s not sure whether he is breathless from the sudden movement, or the close proximity when he pulls them into the hedge maze, sticking close to the ground. Enjolras can feel the grass scrape his knees as they tuck inside the entrance of the maze.

The prince moves himself to sit up straight, legs crossing as he stares at him questioningly. All he can really offer is an apologetic grimace.

“So, care to explain why you’re here at three in the morning?” It was almost quizzical, and Enjolras almost treats it fondly.

“Work?” He throws back, half hearted and with a slight edge, weary, keeping his eyes tracked for any sudden movements.

“Whose work, for the country or for the rebellion?”

“For the country” Because what was the rebellion but just a way to better the country and for its people.

“Favourite flower?” 

“The Red Ane- wait.”

Grantaire shoots him a grin, one that seeps into Enjolras’ heart. He wonders if Grantaire was truly living to his name as Dionysus. 

“Hm?” Grantaire raises an eyebrow at him, egging him on and nudging him in the side.

Enjolras narrows his eyes, despite being previously disarmed by the smile, his hackles are raised again. “No.”

“No’s aren’t a flower, unless I’m mistaken”

“You are.” Was he really about to engage in banter with a prince? He was on a mission, dammit! Combeferre had a detailed plan he had to follow, a simple detailed plan, and he was off course. He sees Grantaire's grin grow wider, and he concedes. “Mistaken.”

“Tell me how so, Apollo.” There it was, ‘Apollo’ again. He was being called a plague to the country. Is Grantaire not aware that he knows Apollo is the god of plagues?

“No.”

“Not very fun, huh?”

“Not with the enemy.” Enjolras crosses his arms, posture defensive. He wasn’t supposed to be fun. Hell, he wasn’t sure why he was sitting idly by and talking to the prince. 

“I don’t think I'm really your enemy right now.” Grantaire tilts his head, motioning to the other side of the hedge behind him, where Enjolras as he turns to look, can make out the figure of a royal guard.

“Red anemones.” He huffs, falling backwards on the grass, feeling the blades of grass prickle on his back. He didn’t think someone could be so infuriating (though Enjolras really didn’t mean that). He stares up to the sky, starting to realise that the dark of the night looked just like it had been contained in Grantaire's curls earlier. “Yours?”

Enjolras doesn’t have time for this. He doesn’t even know why he asked. Yet he can’t bring himself to move. His mind is screaming at him, to just go, to not let his friends down by convening with the prince, out of all people.

“Well, I shouldn’t divulge information to the enemy, should I?” 

Enjolras decides he suddenly wants to go, picking himself off the ground. He bites back a scathing retort, in favour of placidly commenting on the earlier statements. “You just said you weren’t the enemy.”

“No, I said I wasn’t the enemy to you, but you are still actively trying to take me down, are you not?”

He sputters, hands trying to gesture, as if he would find the words he needs from it. “No— not in this moment, no.”

“You are supposed to be.” And he’d be right. The mention of what he was here for frustrated him, reminding him of how much he had been messing up the plan by even having this conversation.

“Just answer the question!” He half shouts before pinching the bridge of his nose, not understanding why exactly he wanted to know so badly. He couldn’t get caught by the royal guards now. It felt like he had been cheated out of information, and now he had to know something in return, to not feel like he had lost whatever this was.

He hears footsteps far away. “Shit.”

He pulls himself to stand up, checking to see if the flag in his pocket was still there. Dusting himself off, he gets ready to make a run for it and to get on schedule. 

“My favourite flowers are sunflowers”

Enjolras doesn’t register this until he has time to think.

He sprints, darting through the hallways like a stray arrow, shot from the heavens. He knows the way to the library, it is still fresh in his mind from the briefing earlier. He needed to make up for lost time, for his distraction in the gardens.

Eponine would be waiting for him there, documents in hand that would secure their victory over the Thénardiers. The package would hold records with proof of embezzlement, and combined with the multiple scathing articles Jehan had begun writing and spreading, would secure the Thénardiers being blamed for the ball crash. Or at least have taken the attention off the event.

The thudding of his shoes are soft, quiet and fast as he runs through the final hallway, the thudding creating a rhythm that lined up with the pounding in his ears. Skidding to a stop, he is met with the large mahogany doors of the library. He deliberately leaves a piece of lockpicking equipment, just to pretend the door hadn’t been unlocked in the first place.

Eponine is thoroughly unimpressed when she sees his panting form, cradling the documents in her arms. Muttering “finally”, she hands over the papers. Taking a minute to breathe, and slowly filling his lungs with air, he sticks his tongue out. 

“No need to be so grumpy, dear sister-in-law, Cosette wouldn’t be happy with that.” Enjolras smiles, and it would have been blinding if he wasn’t teasing.

She only responds with a fond eye roll.

There is a moment that passes, and they both know it was time for the next step of the plan. It was the part he enjoyed the most, being able to lead the guards on a wild goose chase, and the feeling of being faster. It was time to make a ruckus.

(It was also the part Combeferre disliked the most, with the unpredictability and chaos leaving him with no guarantees. He’d trusted Enjolras, especially because he knew Enjolras was great at such.) 

He takes one of the flower pots on the counter, raising it above his head and drops it, watching it hit the ground with a shatter. At the same time, Eponine tries not to laugh as she lets out a scream. They both make a funny face, a ritual last goodbye, as he tears off into the night.

He was always better at running. 

 

Grantaire hears the alarms sound, a blaring that seemed to pierce through his brain and very being. He figures it was what Enjolras was there for. He lets out a small chuckle at the thought, and the fact they had a conversation about flowers right before it. It was funny, the switch from mundane things to straight up treason.

He picks at the grass beneath him, slowly tearing out clumps, as he reels from the conversation, albeit how nonsensical. Running through again and again their words in his head. It was nice, being able to shoot snarky retorts and remarks, even if he was freezing slightly from the wind. 

(He would need to ask the palace gardener about red anemones soon.)

The frantic shouts carried through the air do not snap him out of his thoughts. There’s pandemonium flooding the palace, guards are running around frantically trying to find the intruder as he simply sits there, where Enjolras had set him. 

Of course Enjolras was a smartass, one had to be in order to run a whole rebellion. It was also a stark evidence of the other’s background, the education probably the reason for why he was so smart. What kind of education did the mayor’s son get anyways? It was interesting, it made sense that the rebellion leader wasn’t truly a lowlife. Without access to education, he didn’t think natural smarts could carry someone so far, or so he was told. 

He gets up, moving out of the hedge maze and sees a head of blonde hair rush past the hallway he was in earlier. No doubt, a guard chasing behind him. Did he really care that Enjolras was a criminal and the enemy? He finds that it doesn’t really matter to him. 

They make eye contact as Grantaire stands there on the grass. Apollo shoots him a grin, head turned, waving as he ran. Grantaire’s heart skips a beat.

Were they friends now?

That thought is immediately swatted out of his mind, when he realises the guards have now seen him. The guards were now running over frantically and grabbing him, the rebellion leader no doubt having done so for the reaction. He goes slack in their hands. 

His self preservation instincts tell him it would not be good for his reputation, being friendly around a criminal. The lowest of the low. Well, now he couldn‘t say he hadn’t talked to the other.

(He kind of likes it, Enjolras being a criminal.)

The feeling creeps up on him as he is dragged away, a stray petal on his hair, and he realises what it is. It wasn’t just an admiration of beauty anymore, and he had mistaken it for a small crush. It had never been. It was vicious, forcing his heart to speed up at the trigger. 

It was colour. 

He drags a hand down his face, groaning, and the guards almost stop. This could not be happening. Grantaire wishes he wasn’t sober.

He can’t say he didn’t see it coming.

“grantaire must have the most shit eating grin I love him so much”“enjolras, we love you very much, but let combeferre do the planning”“this makes me grin like an idiot”“in the authors note, mention how you spent hours researching flowers for this” -Marius

Yes, the title is from Tally Hall (Spring and a Storm), they are my secondary hyperfixation and I love their songs. You can see where some of it inspired me.

This was crunched out in 24 hours, due to wanting to finish this before other events. It still has the same amount of love and care put into it though, it just meant no more procrastination or distractions, much like how Enjolras got distracted by Grantaire.

If you'd like to talk or hear more about this au, you can contact me on my tumblr.

Thanks to Marius, for beta-ing, editing, and helping with.. Marius.

Friendship chapter, because I love the three of them, as well as Marius and Grantaire.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Enjolras bursts open the door with a huff. 

The house is dark, the only light coming from the kitchen, barely illuminating the figures in the kitchen.

Combeferre only turns to look at him, unsurprised. He looked to be slightly concerned at his late arrival. They had planned everything, up to the estimate of when exactly he would be back, and it was certainly passed that estimate. Courfeyrac is right next to him, hands frozen in the air, and Enjolras wonders if he was in the middle of a ramble. 

Sluggishly, he puts his shoes on the shoe rack next to the front door, alongside an assortment of different shoes and some heels. Moving to the kitchen island where his friends were sitting, he drops into the barstool next to Combeferre, feeling the leather sink under his weight. It had no doubt turned five or six in the morning, and he was sure that everyone else was soundly asleep in their rooms.

It was obvious his best friends had been waiting for him, sitting there with a direct view of the door in the open floor plan. He slides the package he had just been clutching onto the counter, but it goes ignored in favour of Ferre sliding him a warm cup of tea in a mug, covered in white and yellow alstroemerias, and Courf asking him how he was.

“I’m sorry, things got delayed and I got caught up with the prince.” He yawns, mouth open and feeling weighed down from all the exercise.

This stops Courfeyrac in his tracks, and he sets down the cup of tea (which Enjolras was ever thankful he didn’t drop). Leaning on the countertop, to get a better look at him past Combeferre. He only attempts to avoid eye contact, staring down the smooth marbled island, and noticing all the tiny scratches it had gotten over the years. When he lifts his head up again, Combeferre is also staring at him too. 

Maybe it would’ve been a better idea to leave out the second part of that sentence.

There’s a look of hunger in Courfeyrac’s eyes, and he goes from tired to a distinct personality he had when interrogating. Enjolras tries not to freeze, both his friends had known him well enough to read him, it wouldn’t work to try and keep anything from them. Maybe it had been a bad idea to have Courfeyrac be the interrogator. Combeferre hops on the ‘interrogate Enjolras’ wagon not a second later, cooly sipping from his matching mug.

(Courfeyrac had painted their matching mugs a long time ago, and it had become the only mug they had used. Especially when around each other. It was a beautiful cup, and having the same one as his friends filled him with a warm cosy feeling he always got around them.)

“So, care to explain how exactly you got caught up with the prince?” Enjolras can see Courfeyrac showing a lot of restraint, as the other clearly had wanted to immediately shoot a million questions. He knows better than that, too many questions would lead to Enjolras just leaving to his room. 

He sighs. “Don’t get me wrong, it is nothing like how you got caught up with Pontmercy.”

He could see Combeferre start to give a small smile, hiding it in his mug. Courfeyrac rolls his eyes. “Well.. speaking of Marius..”

Enjolras groans, rubbing his temples, getting involved with palace workers could only result in bad news. Combeferre only splutters, it is a miracle he doesn't spit out his tea. “You’re on a first name basis now?”

“We have been since we started exchanging letters”

Right. The letters.

“Good for you.” He deadpans, and Courf only sticks out his tongue at him.

“So.. the prince?” Back to the questioning, Combeferre ignores his silent pleas, choosing to look uninterested. They all know he was hanging on to every word.

“He is an idiot who takes midnight walks unguarded, I ran into him”

“And you let it delay the mission by half an hour?” Courf moves to sit next to him, sandwiching him between his friends.

“No, I let the guards delay it by half an hour.”

“That has never been a problem, Enjolras.” Combeferre chides, and if Enjolras didn’t know better, he would’ve taken it personally. Since he did know better, he hears the affectionate undertone to the sentence.

“Well, it is now.”

“With that prince of yours not allowed to talk about me and Marius ever again” Courfeyrac pipes up, and Enjolras crosses his arms.

“You just met him. Look, he caught me, because a prince being out at night wasn’t accounted for. We hid from the guards until I went to get the papers.”

“He didn’t shout for help?” Combeferre decides to finally take part in the conversation.

“No. That’s why it was delayed.”

Combeferre sighs, long and hard as he looks down at his mug, turning to Enjolras. “Not you too.”

“What.. what is that supposed to mean, Combeferre?” See, Enjolras and Combeferre normally understood each other with minimal words. They were embarrassingly codependent on each other, even more so than Courf (though they were still a trio). Normally, all it took was a simple gesture, and the other would get it. Even predicting what they would do and accommodate. A lot of their friends had commented how scarily telepathic-like it was. 

All this to say, Enjolras did not understand any of what that string of words from Combeferre’s mouth implied or meant.

Courfeyrac seemed to get it, and he wonders if they had developed some sort of inside joke while he was gone.

He leans his head on Combeferre’s shoulder, feeling the exhaustion start spreading through him. There is a hand in his hair, basically petting him as he almost doses off. He loved his friends. It was comforting, they both seemed to have a sort of aura that put him at ease.

“Jehan’s going to release that article tomorrow.. and Courfeyrac.. you’re tipping all the other news outlets since you’re in charge of relations.. right?“ He could feel himself slowly drifting, his friends felt like safety after a long day of running.

“Yes, Enj.”

“And all of us should be sleeping.” 

“We aren’t the ones who just ran a whole operation. Speaking of which, you need to shower.” Combeferre sets his mug down, gently moving Enjolras upright.

“Can‘t.. I just go to bed?”

“Nope! Don’t be disgusting. Showers then cuddles!” Courf retracts his hand from Enjolras hair, and Enjolras sits up in a sulk, moving to go shower.

He didn’t know what he’d do without them. He owed it all to them.

 

It wasn’t many years ago.

Enjolras was taking a stroll, definitely not doing anything that could be illegal. The streetlamps barely illuminated the roads now, as he carried the flyers he made close to his chest. There is a harsh thumping in his chest, he’d never been out at this hour, let alone without his parents’ knowledge. He had wanted to fight for a better France (with a dedication he may have gotten from his dad), and however lenient his parents were, he was pretty sure that they would not approve of him committing treason.

(He hadn’t fully thought it through back then, on how rash it was to be going out with flyers and no anonymity. How easy it would be to trace it back to him. A heat of the moment decision, fueled by visions of a better world spurring him to hand make all of the flyers throughout the day. He hadn't even planned on how he was going to put them up!)

It is midnight as he walks down the sides of a cobblestone carriage path, red papers flapping in the wind as he assesses the shops and lamp posts. Maybe he could have brought adhesive. It was quiet, and he found a strange sort of peace, where he could think. The thrill of it all, the thrill of a revolution.

(This would be the start of his habit of midnight walks, leading to climbing windows and intruding)

Part of him feels guilty, but he shoves that into the deep crevices of his mind, like a kid to dirty laundry. It is precisely because of this concentration of packing his thoughts into a metaphorical box that he doesn’t pay attention to his path. Because really, who else is taking inconspicuous strolls this late at night?

None of that reasoning matters, when he bumps into someone else. Papers go flying everywhere, in a confetti of red and revolution. 

He knows he was caught red handed. Literally and figuratively. 

The man in question in front of him only pushes his glasses up his nose once he gains his balance. Taking a step back and looking at him questioningly, raising an eyebrow. It strikes Enjolras as eerily similar to what he does himself.

He reaches down to pick up the flyers, hoping that none of it were exposed to the stranger, muttering vague apologies. He scrambles to get all his flyers back into a neat snack, and to his horror the other man was crouched in front of him, looking at a flyer. His blood goes cold.

A moment passes, there is a look in the boy’s eye. He nods, a small gesture.

Solidarity.

Enjolras’ eyes widen, owlish and apprehensive, awe spreads across his features. 

“You agree.” It was soft, and Enjolras was glad that they shared the same thoughts.

Enjolras only ineloquently spills out “Yes..”

When he finally figures out what to say, he is cut off, “You’re going about this wrong. You’ll get caught.” Enjolras sees him holding up a flyer.

“I realise that now. Heat of the moment.”

“What do you think of the newest policies taxing the poor?” Enjolras grins at the question, glad he had a space to talk about banner dinner table topics.
“It is atrocious, why not tax the rich and keep their dirty feet off the poor?” 

“It all only serves to benefit the palace, they have total control.” 

“If we get enough of us to rise up.. They won't be able to do anything about it” Enjolras doesn’t notice the sudden use of ‘we’ in his sentence, or how he had assumed that they would work as a team.

“The national guard would crush it immediately, unless it slowly grows hidden from their eyes.”

“That will be easy, we hide with the people..” He finally sees where they are, and blinks owlishly.

“There's a cafe open, called the Cafe Musain, it is open until four in the morning. It is around the block, if you would like to continue this conversation?”

They start meeting at midnight.

It is how Combeferre becomes the first member of the rebellion and Enjolras’ right hand man.

Two weeks into this, they sit in the cafe. It was now two am, like the clock on the wall showed. Enjolras and Combeferre had been discussing and debating for hours, heads put together and making a bad attempt at staying quiet as to not be arrested.

Combeferre’s tea is left untouched, cold and forgotten. Enjolras’ cake had only one bite taken out of it, despite the fact that he was holding his fork as his gestures get grander, his voice gets louder, unconsciously.

“No one person should be in charge of a whole country! No matter what, one person could never understand what his whole country needs!” Combeferre is nodding along, and suddenly there is a chair being dragged to the table, and another figure is sitting down.

“..you’re not very subtle. Are you trying to get yourselves killed?”

Before Enjolras can open his mouth to protest, the new mystery man continues.

“I’m in. Courfeyrac, unless you are undercover guards, then it is not Courfeyrac.”

“Combeferre.”

“Enjolras.” 

“As you were saying..?”

And thus, the seeds of change had been set into motion.

 

Marius is running, the alarms had startled him from his sleep, and the first thing he hears is that the prince cannot be found.

Grantaire couldn’t be found.

He had spent his last few conscious minutes picking apart the memories of breakfast before dozing off, trying to wrap his mind around why Grantaire seemed to be so quiet. He seemed to not care about his own safety, and now he couldn’t be found? This might as well have been the pressure spike that spelled the end of it for Marius.

So he runs, down the grand hallways, knowing the path from the servant quarters to his friend’s room by heart.


He skids to a stop outside of Grantaire’s room, right in time for him to see the prince being ‘escorted’ back inside it. Something in him is angry, really angry, but he only finds himself exasperated. 

“Grantaire..”

He loses what he was going to say, as Grantaire trudges over to his bed, passing him. He wonders if Grantaire is even truly sorry, he doesn’t look like it. It was like all his work on keeping Grantaire safe was being disregarded, almost as if his friend was moving without a care in the world for all the work he would have to deal with after. Something starts to plague Marius, like a poison tipped arrow has been shot right through his heart and thoughts. 

When the guards leave, and Grantaire is settled in and sat, that is when Marius begins speaking again.

“Monsieur Javert and I try our best for your safety, but you need to be informed of our plans. Not wandering around at three in the morning! Especially now, in these dangerous times!” He punctuates every syllable, trying to control his tone to not sound outwardly frustrated.

Grantaire says nothing, and Marius is starting to feel the panic, fear and anger kick in, like the poison spreading from his heart, ever seeping into his brain now that the adrenaline has worn off. “You should’ve at least taken Bahorel. What were you even doing anyways?” 

His friend begins to explain himself. “I just needed to clear my head, Bahorel would have been upset if I asked.”
“And for good reason! It is simply unsafe for you to go outside this late because of this exact thing!” He had to rip out the arrow before it had spread even further, he hated going against the people he worked for, even more so against Grantaire.

“What were the odds that he would’ve struck today? No one could have expected that..”

“No one can expect it! Which is why you don’t go outside this late! Uncertainty is everywhere, and that rebellion cannot be predicted!” The frustration is starting to rise to his head, his fists clenching and unclenching as he stared down at the stupid tiles. He just needed to make it stop, it truly wasn’t professional.

But Marius’ mouth seemed to have other plans, going on and letting go of any self control and bringing up earlier grievances, finally letting the thoughts that have been haunting him all day come to the surface. “And earlier today, you were just sitting there. I know it was early in the morning, but these are pressing matters!”

He takes a breath, partly horrified at his own loss of self control, hands finding his hair again in a self soothing notion. Grantaire has the heart to look apologetic, as he pats the edge of bed next to him. Marius exhales, stiffly walking over as he sits next to Grantaire, sinking into the bed. It was soft, ridiculously so, he could've been engulfed in it.

“I hope staring at the mayor's son has at least assured you see the difference between him and that criminal.” He speaks flatly, the stress of the previous days leaving and along with it the fight left in him. He stares at his lap and he feels Grantaire tense up beside him. His head shoots up, and he shoots an accusatory look at his friend, though he didn’t know what exactly he was accusing Grantaire of.

Grantaire’s hands immediately fly up, a familiar sight to Marius. “Look.. There's no need to worry, I have it under control.” It’s intended to be soothing, but all it achieves is to rile him up even more. Grantaire did not have it under control.
“Do you? Do you really?” He hisses, bitter and frustrated and oh so tired. “There is something to worry about. You being out at three in the morning while the rebellion leader was actively manoeuvring through the palace was not worrying? Are you really telling me you had everything under control when you were in danger today?” The words are straining, he begins to start tapping his foot too, to let out the energy that was beginning to boil over once more.

“I was there before Enjolras.. okay?” He can see Grantaire slowly turn defensive, but he can’t bring himself to stop.

“HIS NAME IS NOT ENJOLRAS” Marius shouts, a sudden burst of sound that fills the room. The action mostly shocks himself, the noise only working to make him more aware of what exactly he was doing.

“It isn’t my fault he was there while I was!”

There is a pause, and Marius can’t seem to believe that Grantaire had actually said so, much like a kid trying every excuse in the book. It looked to be a fruitless task, no matter how many circles they run it, Grantaire still would not heed his advice.

“That still doesn’t explain the breakfast.”

The exact thing he had been thinking about, he simply could not find the reason that would allude to why exactly Grantaire had acted that way. It had been an important thing, especially for Grantaire's safety, but Grantaire looked as if he had his mind off in some other place. It had been eating away at him, slowly corroding the longer he had been left to ponder about it alone.

“He.. Enjolras looked good.”

“The mayor's son?” Marius took a sharp inhale, as he stops tapping his food on the ground.

“Javert is going to kill me..”

Suddenly things snap into place, and Marius’ head starts spinning. His conscience refrained him from protesting, it immediately reminded him of the letters he had started exchanging in secret. How he had the rebellion members right in front of him and yet instead of raising the alarm had only asked for an opportunity to contact one of them.

“Awww that's.. great..” He drags out his words, he means what he says, he truly is happy about his friend. Yes, Enjolras was bourgeoisie of high status, still he was worried about the further damage it could cause Grantaire’s reputation as a prince and his image to the public. He could see it now, headlines stating: ‘Drunken prince marries the reclusive rebellion leader look alike’.

He is apprehensive, not wanting to hurt his friend, when he voices his concerns.

“Are you sure you don't want someone who is..” He trails off, unsure if he should continue the sentence. “..not known as an absent loner who is connected to the source of the rebellion?” 

When he fully faces Grantaire again, he pats the other on the back, hand rubbing soothing circles as he waits for a response.

“Someone who could actually improve your reputation?” He throws it out there, a kindly suggestion out of wanting the best for Grantaire.

The look on Grantaire is one of longing with every fibre of his being, as he falls back in his bed, one arm covering his eyes. “I love him, Marius..” 

Marius felt his heart wrench in sympathy, his mind trailing off to where his letter may be.

All he can do is agree. 

"Even just Relations would work better than that NO Its 8am your brain is on fire this is a BAD idea and you will regret it" -Marius, about naming this chapter. (I did it anyways.)"6am writing is better than 4am writing""Poor marius is overworked and exhausted"-Marius

This was all written and polished after midnight. It is currently 8am as I writing this and I have not slept. This still has the same amount of love and care as any other chapter.

I have been looking forward to writing this friendship chapter for awhile, as I really wanted to explore the codependency of Enjolras and Combeferre, and the dynamics between the three of them. In my head, Courfeyrac makes a good casual artist. Also, can you tell I have a soft spot for Combeferre? I genuinely enjoy writing their friendships so much. I also have been thinking about writing a side story to this, where we go through all of Courfius' letters. I've toyed with the idea along side Marius, and so far it is looking pretty cute.

"We talked the night away, yet I feel there is so much I still dont know""My favorite colour would be the calm blue of forget-me-nots. Do you know they symbolize faith and true love?""I am sure Jehan will be glad to hear that I am taking an interest in the flowers, even if it is because of you, my dear friend.”"Ever waiting, ever yours, Courfey"

Maybe when I finish this fic, I'll begin kid!Enjolras and Cosette, and Valjean and Javert growing as people alongside their relationship.

Now, I am going to take a nice 12 hour sleep.

If you'd like to talk or hear more about this au, you can contact me on my tumblr.

Thanks to Marius, for beta-ing, editing, giving feedback, and causing me a crisis.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


It’s a cold night, that is the first thing that hits Gavroche as he takes off running. The empty streets are cold, and the wind does not make anything easier. It cuts at him, when he weaves through the various awning supports bordering the empty streets. His legs are only moving from something called ‘adrenulin’, and he wills himself to hurry before his legs finally gave out. He had a day to convince them, though he knew better than that. It would not take that long. 

The stones that made up the sidewalk beneath him had started digging into the bottom of his feet a long time ago. He doesn’t remember the last time his shoes weren’t battered and worn, or when the last time he didn’t feel every nook and cranny of the street. There was a sort of ringing in his ear, like the alarms that sounded everytime the rebellion had caused trouble. It was comforting, reminding him that he was getting ever closer to his friends. What was not comforting, was the tightness that was beginning to grab at his head, wrapping around him like a blindfold. The thudding of his heart guided his feet in a steady rhythm, to keep the fire shielded as he made his way to a place he knew he would be safe. He was not running away, he was returning.

If you ignored all the technicalities. 

His friends were all staying there, so why couldn’t he? Mothers would tell their children not to talk to strangers and not to follow another adult home, but his mother had never told him that, so it would not count. He could more than take care of himself. He hadn’t met them for long either, and he had been escaping out before then too, but like how a fish takes to water, it had felt like he had always been there. 

It hadn’t been this cold when he had first met them. Sneaking around the palace unsupervised, he’d decided he would follow this noble lady for a while, to find an opening to pick her purse. Anyone in the palace was bound to be an easy target (he needed money to run away, didn’t he?). It could have proved entertaining anyways. The noble gossip he heard along the way was better than silence or nagging. It had inevitably led to him outside the palace walls, which wasn’t anything he was unfamiliar with. That purse picking could come later, he could pinch a few pennies from various unsuspecting nobles, that was to be easy and expected. What was not, was the blonde lady stopping in the middle of the street before turning the corner.

He hurriedly follows, and is rewarded with the view of a large crowd (think of all the pennies!), and he finds his gaze pulled to what exactly they were gathered for. It seems the lady has the same idea, looking at a young man. The red coat he was wearing, bright and striking, meant one thing. He had heard enough rumours to know it meant that the speaker was an enemy of the state.

This could’ve been a way out.

He doesn't pay attention to the similarities in looks of the lady and the speaker as he wriggles into the crowd, through the pillars of legs glued to the pavement under him, finally finding a pocket of air in the middle, right in front of the speaker. He knows he isn’t recognisable, being the second prince entailed never showing his face anyways, because who would invite the troublemaker, that could not even come first, anywhere? There's a fear that pierces through him, when the man raises an eyebrow at him before continuing his speech, but he chalks it up to him being a kid in the middle of something clearly political. There are some words he doesn’t understand, but the rest was easy from years of exposure outside.

Gavroche finds that he agrees.

When the crowd starts to dissipate and there are no more flyers left to distribute, he is still there.

The man stretches, and Gavroche decides this is the perfect moment to grab his attention.

“Hey!” It instantly jolts the man to attention, and he looks down at Gavroche with a sort of intrigue. “You were looking for members? I’ll join you. Take me with you!” He unconsciously puffs out his chest as he says this, making him look boyish in every sense of the word. 

“You need to understand what you’re getting committed to.” He is unimpressed, crossing his arms as he continues staring at Gavroche. It is not a full rejection. 

“I know what I am getting into, I heard you! Or is it just because I'm a kid?”

“I don’t know if I fancy getting charged with royal kidnapping.”

“It’s not kidnapping if I go along with it.”

The man in red sighs, brows knitting as he looks down at his feet, he looks partly as if he is contemplating and partly like he is annoyed at the fact he is even considering the absurdity. He eventually settles, and Gavroche doesn’t realise what he is doing until it is too late. He is sat in the man’s arm, five feet off the ground. His arms immediately wrap around the enemy’s neck, his own words coming back to bite him, and they don’t get very far before they stop, in front of two men. He thinks he’s about to get kidnapped, when a hand starts pulling at his cheek, belonging to the long haired man. The brown hair seems to fall onto his face, but he pays no mind to it, opting to continue to pull and poke at Gavroche’s face, ignoring the disapproving look coming from the other one beside him, who only pushes his glasses up his face and doesn’t speak.

“Courfeyrac.”

“You’re too young to have a child, Enjolras! We didn’t even know you had a mistress!” His cheek is still being pulled.

“Courfeyrac.” This time, the person beside Courfeyrac speaks. 

“And where would he even stay! A kid shouldn’t be caught up in treason! And besides, why would you let him get this old before collecting him!”

“Courfeyrac.” The tone is harsher and sterner coming from directly above him, accompanied with what Gavroche could barely make out as a glare. Coufeyrac falls back.

“Who is this kid, Enjolras?” The calm one interjects, eyebrow raised. Gavroche thinks that the habit is similar to this Enjolras.

“The second prince, Gavroche.” Gavroche almost falls out of his arms at how straightforward it was.

“You must have a good reason for this.” The only stranger left looks a little worried, but doesn’t question anything further.

“Look at the state of him, he wanted to come with.” Somehow, Enjolras manages to pat his head as he speaks. This man wouldn’t kidnap him! He was more afraid of dying by fall than anything.

“You’re using him for ransom?!”

“No. We are getting him some food and new shirts.” What?

“At our base?” Finally some sense is inputted in the conversation, and Gavroche wonders if they were really heretics after all. 

“No, that would be foolish.”

He gets dropped off later that night, and nobody is the wiser to the new bonds that have been made.

Currently, he is skidding to a stop at the by now familiar brown door. It had taken much longer by foot, and the few wrong turns he took only lengthened the amount of time, it made sense that he knew the way still, looking out of the window in a carriage was a habit he never got rid of. The sun hasn’t risen, but he hopes his friends haven’t slept in.

He doesn't want to climb through their window again.

 

The lamps that lined the streets flickered, showing a dimming flame on the curtains and leaving the headquarter’s kitchen dark. It had left the room in shadows, awaiting the morning sun to rise and mark the true start of dawn, slowly shrouding one’s vision.

Yet, the thumping of the cabinet doors could be heard, muffled by a little padding as they were let go of, as multiple hands had grabbed what they needed. What was a spacious kitchen had been overtaken, bowls on chairs and people on countertops, social convention went to die here. If any self respecting noble had witnessed the sight they’d had to be taken to see a physician. A few sleepy collisions could not be avoided, for the ABC were famously not morning people, and inevitably milk ends up on the floor to the tune of collective groaning. No one moves to clean it up. The darkness that is left of the passing night did not suit the rebellion, leaving a sort of pale tint to all seven members awake, like they had been ghosts of the long past.

“Would it hurt to open the curtains for once?” Bossuet is groaning, head down on the table and resting in his arms.

“Yes. It would.” Shoots back Joly.

“Then would someone care to light a fire?”

They all collectively look to the fireplace next to the couches, perpendicular to their chalkboard which had been covered with notices, reminders, drawings and doodles from different members around the house. Courfeyrac had too much free time.

There is no response, they are too lazy and tired to move. Enjolras is too, it was a little known fact that while Enjolras was quick, his physical health was worse than average. His headache had gone away with a bit of rest, but the aching in his knee had not gone away, giving out on him as he climbed the stairs to his room yesterday. His back is the only thing that remains pain free, contrary to the norm. They decide a singular candle on the kitchen counter is enough, groggily striking a match to get it lit. The flame comes to life, quelling the immediate darkness around. It looks like they come to life again, and the tension eases, allowing them to breathe with ease. The rest of the breakfast goes on in comfortable silence, only broken by squeaks from the chair of Courfeyrac who is unable to sit still. 

No one liked waking up this early, it was too early even for Combeferre. 

It irritated Enjolras, though he knew it was because his dad was an early riser. The unlucky souls awake had received an urgent letter from the national guard for a ‘witness interrogation’ regarding the events of the masquerade. Which in his opinion was just a fancy name for ‘you ask us questions, but we lead you on a wild goose chase’. Javert had taught Enjolras that, whenever he'd get into troubles, he should not give anything away until his parents arrived. They both knew better than anyone that the National Guard would latch onto anything and throw false accusations, they knew better than anyone how the national guards would latch onto anything, especially with the recent accusations to the mayor's son. Javert had then repeated to him and his sister these safety measures. Enjolras in turn had taught these to his friends, albeit changing a few things. 

If those included giving just tidbits of false information just to lead the police on to the other side of the tracks? Well, he wouldn’t know what you meant, officer.

A knock sounds, and Enjolras reluctantly peels himself off the chair, trying to stomp his way to the door (his knee did not like that). Being the designated door opener, for the purposes of keeping their cover, he throws open the door. His frown only deepens at the sight of no one, but the cold air rushing through the doorway.

When his gaze finally dips down, confusion starts to etch its way into his features.“Gav?”

"If I do the dishes, would you let me stay?"

He ushers Gavroche in, hands on his shoulders as directs him to sit in Enjolras’ seat by the counter. The boy had no jacket on, autumn winds had been starting and the weather had not been kind this year. At the sight of him, Feuilly rushes to light the fireplace, Bossuet drapes a blanket (Enjolras recognises as the one from their couch) on top of the boy, and he can faintly hear the sounds of a kettle boiling.

“Why are you here, mon chouchou?” Courfeyrac kneels down on one knee in front of Gavroche, grabbing his hands.

“I'm not the heir, they won't even notice I'm gone. You guys are more exciting than anything that ever happened at the palace.” Gavroche rolls his eyes, his hands waving it off. “Beside that chandelier of course! How did you even do that?!” He begins to get more animated, mimicking the chandelier falling and Enjolras feels a sense of pride swelling inside him. He doesn’t realise he was now smiling in return.

“Gavroche, you’re the prince of the nation. You can’t just run away at five in the morning.” Enjolras cuts in, Courfeyrac has somehow gotten a wet cloth and has started wiping the dirt from the boy’s face. 

“Well I just did. If you guys aren’t going to let me stay with you, I'll just sleep on the streets and get myself assassinated.” The pronunciation of Gavroche's last word was frankly adorable.

There is a collective sigh from around the room. 

“We could very much be persecuted for this. Your brother will be worried.” Combeferre is next to him, trying to appeal to Gavroche. There are many sets of eyes watching their little showdown, Enjolras shifts his footing, considering whether he should truly take the little prince in.

“My brother trusts me. And you’re already persecuted, you’re running a rebellion. It can’t get any worse.” He’d never heard the word persecuted before, but he could puzzle together from the context Combeferre had used it. The ABC had always told him he was a quick learner.

“Fine. You can have the room closest to the living room.”

 

Javert is glaring at the boy in front of him.

He had been up since six in the morning, and his patience was wearing thin. Questioning all the invited members of the ball had taken hours. Regardless of their many teams, they had not been half way done. This was annoyingly getting nowhere, a brick wall had seemed to obstruct the path of justice, especially with the latest group of aristocrats and their plus ones. His subordinates had seemed to have obtained a few leads, but all of them had been different, less than untrustworthy. He had to verify everything anyways, for fear of missing an important clue.

Standing in a small interrogation room, the walls dusty white, a metal table in the corner and most importantly, a suspect in front of him. He looms over the suspect sitting in his seat, staring down as he does not react. “Where were you at the time of the rebels crashing the party?”
“I was at the ball.” This infuriated Javert, there was no emotion to pick apart, and he was simply stating the obvious.

“Did you see anyone?”
“Thenardier looked suspicious.”

“Do you know who the boy on the piano was?”
“The rebellion leader.”

“Where did you go after the ball?”
“Home.” 

Javert slams his fist on the metal table. The flimsy metal dents under his strength, the witness does not react, only turning to look at his fist and raising an eyebrow. There was something about the gesture that frustrated him even more, but he shakes it off and attempts to continue with the question. 

“How did you get home?” He’s breathing heavily, as his voice starts to rise in volume.

“By travelling.”

“Travelling with what?” It comes out more incredulous that it was supposed to.

“Myself.”

He sits back into his own chair, huffing as he levels out his own voice. “I'm not getting anything from you.” He calls for the next witness, shooing the delinquent out. He would not have anything emotionally affect him, he had work to do. He doesn’t realise it, not until he is packing up his bag at his break room and his mindset had begun to switch, that he realised why the habits from earlier had irritated him. That eyebrow raise, those curt answers, and the silent judgement.

That Combeferre boy had reminded him of his own son.

He does not want to be reminded of his son, not from a suspect, and especially not with how someone acted towards him at work. He briefly entertains the idea that it had been the influence of that rebel leader pretending to be Enjolras, but he dismisses it immediately. No one knew how Enjolras truly acted except their family. It must have been a trick of the mind, with how similar the rebellion leader already looked to his son

He doesn't stay on this train of thought for very long either, it was not productive to have personal relationships skew his investigation, his work and family were to remain separate at all costs. This sort of thinking only served to derail true progress.

It would not lead to anywhere but ruin.

"i didn't read this as 'pees himself on the chair'... not at all""Nah, I don't wanna add anything. I don't want to add anything else""No, you can just say like- NO nohodhos shut up""Don't quote me on anything, you're an ass""EVERYTHING I SAID EVERYTHING" -Marius

After many crisises about writing this, it’s finally out.

My apologies for taking so long, I had to rework the entire structure and plan of this chapter, and finals had gotten in the way. I still think about this au everyday, and I will try to stick to my goal of 3/4 days per chapter deadline for future chapters. The letters are also in the works, and it may be released before the next chapter.

I loved the idea of Gavroche being a modern day Prometheus, so I tried to include some of its symbolism.

I should also have another side story up soon, depending on how much my exams get in the way. It is referenced in “Had I Known” and has been weighing on my mind as well.

If you'd like to talk or hear more about this au, you can contact me on my tumblr.

Thanks to Marius, for beta-ing, editing, giving feedback.

Have a romance filled chapter, for finals have been disrupting my writing.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


The sun had begun rising as he waited for his friends, blanketing the garden and permitting the flowers to bloom. There was no small amount of leaves beginning to fall, the grass turning brown from the decay that had begun to cover them. Enjolras hadn’t been called in, thanks to ‘Enjolras Valjean’ having been nowhere near the ball. There was a gentle breeze, ruffling his curls and keeping hair out of his face as he reads (‘The Revolutionary’s guide to Reform’ recommended by Combeferre, the outside hidden by a nondescript brown cover).

The stone bench he was sitting on was familiar, and Enjolras would go as far to claim that it was his spot, that he had sat in this place long enough to be a regular. The flowing of water could be heard behind him, the grand fountain remaining disregarded, all the intricate carvings around the sides and up the pillars unseen by the rebel. He was kicking his feet, loosely scraping the rough limestone bricks, and getting the beige powder all over the soles of his shoes.

This was routine, Enjolras waiting for his friends to discuss what had been happening and safeguarding for the chance of anything going wrong. (Mostly to make fun of the guards). This also had allowed him to stop the few times the guard really had decided to stir trouble, stepping in and claiming they had an alibi, and that he could vouch. He would never specify what this alibi included, but the guards would never dare disagree with a noble anyway. He wishes for Combeferre and Courfeyrac to be done somewhat soon, but the guards always liked to take their time, so his hopes may have been extinguished. 

Avoiding looking up to prevent a strain on his eyes from the bright light, he continues reading, pen in hand as scribbles down anecdotes and responses to the ideas presented in the book. In the side of his vision, he vaguely recognised the plants from the endless amount of mindless staring in some of the previous sessions. Pink camellias had slowly begun creeping up the walls that surrounded the square, shrouding it as matching begonias started to bloom.

It was quite excessive, really.

He’s too busy internally cursing at the royal family to pay attention to his surroundings. To notice that someone had been seated next to him. The shadow casted on his book, making it unreadable is the only thing that snaps him of his daze. He reels back out of this thoughts and into the world.

“Earth to Enjolras?”

“You.” He forgets his exact role in the moment, that he wasn’t supposed to be a rebellion leader, scrambling to save the sentence ”—r highness.” He could get away with it, since the prince had sat next to him uninvited. Though he probably didn’t care for that formality anyways.

“When have you cared about that?” It’s almost accusatory towards him, Enjolras for some godforsaken reason is staring at Grantaire, watching with an unreasonable amount of concentration. 

“What do you mean?” His reply is instant, playing innocent and unaware, and Grantaire’s eyes seem to crease together, lips pulling into a scowl. 

Enjolras wants to reach over to smooth out the skin between Grantaire’s eyes. Self restraint.

“You understand what I mean.” The look of frustration seems to intensify. Enjolras is aware he is playing with poison. Then again he ran a rebellion, that had long past stopped being something that held him back.

He shoots it down, in favour of seriousness, but there is something smug that begins to creep onto his face. “I’m sorry, your highness, but I am not sure I get what you mean.” 

The next words that come from the monarch’s mouth make him cringe with pain, and he can feel his face beginning to burn, as if someone had just made him drink a glass of lemon juice. “Monsieur Valjean.” Hearing himself referred to like his father made him recoil with fervour.

“Your highness crown prince Grantaire.” It is an instant reply, twinged with distaste.

Grantaire sighs, the exhaustion is imminent. “After how you used me?”

Enjolras concedes, dropping the act enough for Grantaire to see if he tiptoed. “Consider planting sunflowers, it would match the tiles.”

There is a look that crosses the prince’s face, akin to shock, and he tries his best to school his expression to stop the grin.

He continues, light, like one would do with a friend. “The rebellion must have been terrifying, twice over a weekend.”

“Careful, you might find yourself locked up for treason...” The tone is equally as light, returned with a small grin, and Enjolras feels a grapevine wrapping around his heart, struck with the realisation that it felt like they were old friends, and that they had just met again.

He shakes it off, redirecting his focus back onto the conversation. “I am merely expressing my concern, monseigneur.” He continues to attempt to keep his expression and emotion even, regardless of the disgust for the title.

Grantaire shoots him a knowing look, and he hunches into himself, defensive.

“You couldn’t have been here just on account of concerns?” It is prodding, and he can watch as the prince’s face lights up, enjoying the act of questioning him. 

He was sure he hadn’t been called up for an interrogation of himself.

“I am simply waiting for someone.” It's stiff, his back straightens out, and he stops swinging his feet. The reaction is instinctual, protective for the perceived threat. Grantaire casually moves forwards, ignoring the sudden block in the conversation, smoothly manoeuvring through it.

“Your sister?” 

The wind begins to blow stronger, unconsciously pushing them closer together.

“No.”

Grantaire’s face falls. Maybe it was that the prince had assumed Enjolras had more connections to the palace, but that wouldn’t be sensible. He would have never been let free otherwise, though it still does not quell the nagging suspicion beginning to cloud his mind, that the prince had other motives. “Then, who could it be?” Really, if he had wanted to be questioned, he would have gone to his dad, interrogator extraordinaire. 

He is saved from both deflecting and answering the question as Combeferre walks down the entrance of the palace alone, causing him to sit straighter and the suspicion to twist into worry. “Courfeyrac says he’ll be home later. Oh, your highness.” As Combeferre bows, Enjolras catches the fleeting look of confusion on his friend's face, hurriedly ushered away by realisation as he pushes his glasses further up his nose and lifts an eyebrow towards him.

Enjolras suddenly gets it, and his face turns a little red. 

Combeferre thought he would abandon the rebellion.

He only registers the close distance between him and the prince after he looks over in alarm, rushing to stand up and move a respectable distance, brushing off any dirt that may have gotten on his pants. Joining Combeferre, they bid a quick but formal goodbye as Enjolras pulls him towards the front gate of the palace, whispering that he had nothing but absolute devotion to their cause.

 

Cosette steps out into the light of afternoon, having cleared out her schedule of events for the ‘interrogation’. As her eyes began to take in where she was, and her surroundings came into view, the clear skies hovering above the world around her.

The interrogation had consisted of mostly skirting around actual questions, rushing through the mandatory words before ushering her out of the door, being careful to not offend her. She had expected this, no matter how many times she had been questioned, it was a preliminary assumption that she would be guilt free, sweet nature and all.

Little had they seen how her smile began to echo her brother’s when she turned to leave.

Well, since she had nothing to do, what better than to spend some time with her girlfriend? She quickly turns the corner down to a quiet hallway, heels clicking as she hurried down, containing her giddiness. It was a perfect excuse to drink tea and pester Eponine. What could she say, she loved being around her girlfriend! As she approaches the library, willing herself not to throw open the doors, her heart skips multiple beats when she catches sight of her girlfriend. There she was. WIth her hair tied up, looking increasingly bored as she leaned on the counter propping her face up with a hand, glaring down at the few visitors that were making noise. 

Cosette hopes with all her heart that it isn’t just a trick of her imagination when she sees Eponine’s face light up as they make eye contact.

The library is practically empty, no doubt thanks to her brother’s scare, and she moves to sit at the table closest to the check out (and Eponine). The window in the back leaves the grand oak shelves glowing, the elongated shadows providing shade for the various scholars on the ground reading. There’s a balcony that overhangs the shelves, lined with seats and books that seem to almost overflow from the railings.

She flags down the nearest worker, running the small cafe counter opposite them, and orders two cups of chamomile. When the waiter nods and walks away, she is turning to Eponine.

“Oh ‘Ponine, care to join a lonely soul?” The grin that threatens to split her face is barely being restrained. 

Eponine only walks around, sitting opposite her and matching her expression. “You are beginning to sound much too similar to your brother, ‘Sette.”

They are sat slightly turned to the counter, hiding their conversation and faces from clear view. Cosette makes a small gesture of waving her off. “And he sounds too much like my dear dad.” 

“Enough about him, how did the interrogation go?” Eponine is making small air quotes, hidden away from the rest of the building.

“As usual, they are still too terrified to question me properly” Eponine scoffs, covering her mouth with her hand and making the motion as dramatic as possible, drawing a chuckle from Cosette.

“Your dad needs to train them better..”

“They’re not dogs, ‘Ponine. You said enough about him! How did yours go, dear?”

She grabs onto Eponine’s hands over the table, silently holding a grudge at the ivory gloves on her hands, that restricted her from truly touching the librarian. She listens with a dopey grin as Eponine goes about her day, quietly insulting and cursing at the various guards who had looked at her wrongly. She was sure her eyes were shining with fondness, as Eponine made small gestures on the table recreating a scene to show what exactly had happened, and her heart wants to burst with all the love she feels.

From her purse, she takes out a lone daisy, and slides it into Eponine’s hair. It stays there, resting above her ear and tucked in her hair, standing in stark contrast to the dark of her hair. Cosette can feel her face beginning to split open.

“Where did you get this?”
“I may have plucked it from a garden..” Eponine shoots her a look, amusement clear as she unconsciously brings a hand up to touch her hair. “..the royal one.”

Eponine reached for the cream on the cake that had been put in front of them, and promptly boops her nose with it. It gets on her nose. It takes more than a moment, with how infatuated she is, to remember where she is. She hurriedly wiped her nose with a napkin to avoid any curious eyes. 

It was unladylike to do so, anyways.

When the napkin has been sat down, and their hands are connected again in a ‘friendly’ manner, they continue their conversation. The conversation begins to flow again, and she begins to get lost in watching ‘Ponine’s eyes, because who cared about the cliches. It is a cliche for a reason right?

“I have the best g.. friend in the world, the royal gardens?”

They weren’t exactly.. unaccepted. Being queer had hardly passed in the public view (her parent’s marriage had been more than enough proof of that!). But their main obstacle had been their different classes, somehow it had become akin to a crime, to mingle outside of their nobility.

(At least no one had questioned why her fingernails had always remained short.)

“Not so loud, Ponine!” She forgets that their hands are connected, when she pivots her hand up right in front of their faces.

They swiftly ignore the freudian slip in favour of planning out their next few engagements, careful to call it anything but a date. They plan for what they would do the next weekend they both could reunite, when their schedules would permit them. 

Long live the rebellion, for one day they could love, openly and freely.

 

The questioning hall is eerily quiet, save for the occasional reverbing of footsteps, when Courfeyrac steps out of the questioning hall. He is about to find his way to his friends, when someone smacks head first into him, causing him to stumble multiple steps backwards.

He’s about to spout off a few highly masked choice words, and potentially wait for an apology when he recognises the outfit and face of the accident causer. It was a face he had close to memorised, hair in a mess that vaguely resembled a comb of a rooster. Courfeyrac is sure that it had been caused by running his hand through from stress, a habit he had noticed when they had first met. (Marius had nervously ran his hand through his hair so many times at the ball, that it ended up causing Courfeyrac to have to stifle multiple giggles at how he looked.)

Marius seems to have realised it before he did, going wide eyed, lips parting in disbelief. “Courf..ey?”

The stars had aligned for them, he concludes.

He reaches out a hand, and Marius reaches back, before freezing. The hesitation is broken by nervously wiping his palm on his hands, before he feels another warm hand in his. It was the little things like this, that had Courfeyrac enamoured with the frazzled secretary.

It had only endeared him even more.

“Are you occupied?” Courfeyrac’s mouth moves before he can do anything, it is a highly unnatural gesture.

“No! I mean.. No, uh.. Why?” Marius continues to stumble, albeit only through his words this time.

“I know a fantastic place, it could be a date?” Marius furiously nods, the quick and confident response for something so risky is rather out of character for him, but all sense of caution had seemed to be lost. It was vastly different from all the worry of getting caught that had been present in their letters, and it causes Courfeyrac to smile when they begin walking and looking for Combeferre.

Combeferre only sighs at the sight of them, gently shaking his head, exasperated as he gestures to the both of them. Courfeyrac’s grin only widens as he waves a hand to indicate the presence beside him, in a method of communication that only they (and Enjolras, of course) had known how to decipher. 

They begin their strange sort of code, that had been taught only by time and an understanding, that not once had been spoken on. It only takes three gestures (pointing at nothing, making a fist and slicing the air) to get his message across, telling Combeferre to tell Enjolras that he would be home later instead. His friend looks solemn, before communicating back that he would have to explain to their leader himself later.

When Combeferre finally waves them off, it does not take any time for Courfeyrac to turn back to Marius and begin walking. He is trying to find a good conversation starter, to make the best impression he could during this ..tryst, but Marius seems to beat him to it again. “How have you been, I hope you’ve been well?”
Well, he should step it up by a hair. “I am fine now, with you by my side. What about you, monsieur?”

Score. Marius flushes, looking down. Courfeyrac relishes in the reaction, watching how the red starts to blotch on Marius’ cheeks, up until it meets his eyes. 

“I am also doing well, now that I have seen your face..”

It doesn’t seem to take long for them to reach the establishment he had been talking about. (In reality, it had taken much longer than they had realised). When he mocks salute to the doorman they had.

Marius didn’t need to know how many times he had charmed various other aristocrats to be familiar with this place. They’d get to it in due time. Places like this had been his natural habitat, filled to the brim with various nobles who only sought flowery words, though he detested the very class that had allowed it to flourish. He was truly putting his heart forward with this one, to come here with no ulterior motive, and this time his company wouldn’t be interrogated in the basement!

When their soups and bread are placed in front of them, he reaches for the bread, taking a loaf from the basket. His smile begins to lean on the side of devilish when he cuts into it with his own knife, before spreading butter on it, and it only widens when Marius sputters. Breaking etiquette by cutting bread was always a fun way to grab attention, and to seem like a harmless nitwit in front of his victims, though he only had wanted the former from Marius. 

If his stance on the bourgeoisie was not clear from their first meeting, it would be now.

“Do you not know of the proper etiquette?” There is a distinct lack of condescension that Courfeyrac has grown accustomed to, only bewilderment facing him as he takes his eyes upwards.

He only brushes it off, offering a softer smile to lessen the shock. “I know it.” 

“Then, pardon, why are you not using it?” The bewilderment only grows, and Marius has forgotten about his food.

“Why? It is a little useless, no? Why apply useless rules to what is already a privilege, we should be able to enjoy it without restrictions.” He hops on the chance to voice his opinions, no matter how small the opportunity, after all he had felt the same as his brothers.

“Oh.” He presumes that Marius would resent that he would never stop being a rebel as he chews on his bread. It was who he was, he would never give it up, even for something as alluring as love.

His brain stops in its tracks, when Marius tries to joke, “You might as well eat with your hands, then.” it does not mask the undertone of hostility. 

He takes it in stride, it was not easy to break from the rules and lessons that had been deemed necessary and hounded, and Courfeyrac could be empathetic to the plight. “Actually, that's not too bad of an idea!”

Marius' face takes up a look of pain, and yields. “Please don’t.” Courfeyrac chuckles about it, taking pity and having the decency to leave it be. “If you didn’t like the bourgeois, why would you choose a fancy restaurant?”

“To woo you, perhaps?” Marius’ gaze goes to his hands, another habit he seemed to go to everytime he was flustered. Eponine would say he looked like a dumb dork, but Courfeyrac would argue that it was utterly adorable.

The rest of the night seems to pass like a blur, where he barely remembers what he has consumed, but all of Marius’ words and actions stick in his head prominently.

(And if Enjolras sends him a disapproving look when he is caught writing letters that same night? No one is the wiser.)

"I love it its like its like marius hadn't ever expected to see him this soon and is just he's just yes.just no brain (its problematic)""marius is problematic.""thats such a strange kinda sign of attraction and im HERE for it""i like how these weird impulses tell the audience all that enjolras doesnt understand himself" -Marius

Happy Mothers Day to everyone who is celebrating, and if not, I hope you have a great day anyways!

Once again, I am deeply sorry for taking forever, finals have been kicking my ass. I will try to keep sticking to my goal of 3/4 days per chapter, hopefully even before my finals are over. The letters have been posted along side this. We're going to have a little arc of the consequences of last chapter, coming up, if finals don't continue to slow down my writing. Not to mention my friends starting a minecraft smp that has taken up almost all my time for writing.

I have a separate universe and another one shot in the works, but the universe may have to wait until this has been finished.

If you'd like to talk or hear more about this au, you can contact me on my tumblr.

Thanks to Marius, for beta-ing, editing, and giving feedback.

Boy has it been a long week.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Javert would have murdered someone, if it wasn’t absolutely illegal, and morally wrong. 

He is fuming, shoulders tense as he stares down at the multitudes of paper spread across his desk, neat and organised. The tea sitting on the corner of his desk has long gone cold, having been untouched since he had set it down, the paperwork taking every inch of his attention. A written report was used to notify him of the prince’s disappearance. A simple verbal report would have been quicker and more efficient in relaying information, but now the prince was long gone. The ink is bleeding through the parchment, spreading more than he would like it to as it gathers up in tiny blots, and Javert tries not to rip through the report with his pen. 

They, he, should have kept a better eye on the second prince.

The prince had disappeared somewhere between midnight and seven in the morning, and there had been no traces of a forced entrance. If anything, there had been more evidence stacked for a break out, the windows had clearly been unlocked from the inside. It was vital that they did not release the information of the window to the public, it would only set more of the wretched after the boy, knowing that he was out of security's hands. When an emergency interrogation had been ordered, there had only been one glaring similarity between all of the palace servants. Not a single soul had reacted to the news appropriately, shrugging it off, and with some inflated ego and audacity had only asked what they should do for their work now. It left many of the knights and guards in a state of bewilderment. 

The knight assigned to Gavroche, a sorry excuse for a human, Montparnasse, had only stuck a finger in his ear when being ruthlessly torn into by Javert himself. It was appalling, no doubt a major factor in why the prince had even managed to escape. He would file a report when this was all over, he hardly thought he would have time to do so now, there had been far more important things than getting a currently jobless knight to be dismissed. Plus, he would have to battle multiple nobles (namely the thenardiers, who had a vice grip on the monarchy), there were far more important issues.

Where could a child have possibly gone? The thought of an abduction seemed to be ridiculous, from the evidence that had been compiled, everything had seemed to point towards the complete opposite direction. Even so, there was a hunch that Javert could not shake, one that had never truly failed him (evidenced by the time when Valjean had lived under an alibi, before turning into a success story of being an ex-con turned mayor). It was something wary, that snarled inside of him, sharp enough that could sniff out any trace of the truth.

This thing inside of him was certain the prince was with the rebellion. He would not be the least surprised if the rebellion had gotten its clutches on the boy, and if it was not the rebellion that had kidnapped the second prince, they would have him by now. Not unlike a reptile, his blood would grow colder by the minute, adjusting to his new knowledge and environment, and with every moment the rebellion had existed. The longer it had existed, the more the stability of their nation was crumbling. It was a match upon a pile of scrap wood, burning heedlessly and endangering the lives of every citizen under rule, a loose cannon that had been set ablaze.

As he furiously stares at the paper in front of him, writing having become methodical scratching in a neat blocky print, and mechanically puts it away. It is a motion that has become muscle memory, and that has been repeated for the past hour and he stews in his thoughts and tries to piece together the puzzle. To his right now is now a map of possible routes that the second prince could have taken, and further away from it, a collection of witness sightings of where they had seen a small boy running. He had marked on the map splayed before him every location of the witness reports, it had been kept an utmost secret from the public, and Javert was cautious of the sightings having been any of the street urchins who remain on the streets instead. 

His head is beginning to pound, the righteous fury flowing through his head had begun to point it’s trident towards himself instead. It started to point out how he did not manage the forces around the second prince better. The tidal waves of exhaustion and righteousness are beginning to crash into him, as he does not find any leads past a certain street in paris. He unconsciously tries to find solace in taking a sip of tea, only to quickly set the teacup back in its place when liquid begins to hit his tongue. It was cold, and he is forced to swallow instantly to avoid spitting out his tea and subsequently wasting food. He does not bother in getting any new refreshments.

There is work to do.

 

Peering through the door of his dad’s office, Enjolras wonders if he has sighed this hard since Courfeyrac’s existence. He was sure both Cosette and his father had been asleep, but at the sound of scratching heard from his dads office, he had decided to take a look. Upon having discreetly shoved his head past the doorway (a habit that he would never really stop), after quietly pushing open the heavy door, he had ran a hand through his curls. His work immersed parental figure had not noticed the new presence, and even from the doorway, he could see his dad’s normally upright posture beginning to slump ever so slightly. He has to hold back a snicker. Even exhaustion had begun to add up on his dad, who always lectured them on the importance of sitting straight. It was not like Enjolras had ever really taken the lessons to heart, even if it had ended up ingrained into his brain. It had been glaringly obvious that someone had ought to give his dad a break.

The job had ultimately risen to him.

When he steps away from the door, he pulls the door close to shut, preventing a click from resounding in the room. And as much as Enjolras could’ve stomped on every step of his way down, he does not want to put his dad into any more grief than the ‘abduction’ of Gavroche ultimately did. This was not something he could interfere with, it would be unfair to, and annoy his dad if he had pulled his dad to rest considering the work that had been going on in the office. He wasn’t that much of a hypocrite either.

The kitchen is lit by a single fading candle when he gingerly moves over. The beige wool socks that cover his feet luckily prevent him from feeling the shock of cold he would have normally felt at the transition from wood to tiles, that had absorbed the cold of autumn and turning frigid. What wasn’t as lucky, was the added bonus of the socks making him slip, his body weight shifting backwards before he steadied himself on the counter, knees having given out beneath him during the slip. It is with a practiced ease that he hurries to stand back upright, taking his weight away from the countertop, to instead find a match for the stovetop.

Enjolras ends up finding the match after rummaging through various drawers for a few minutes, and he hopes that would be the last obstacle of the night in his quest to boil some water. He grabs a few logs of firewood from beside the stove, before opening the door beneath the stovetop and throwing them inside, enough to last the duration of his mission. The match lights, beginning to burn bright as he throws it through the hatch, the flame immediately engulfing and turning the walls of the stove a bright brazen orange, consuming the firewood. He quickly closes it, and sets the copper kettle on top of the stove. 

He begins to drift into his thoughts when the water bubbles, and he stops mindlessly staring to grab a tin of tea leaves from the cabinet on the wall next to him. He doesn’t exactly know much about tea, coffee being his drink of choice, but he is sure that his father has once mentioned that chamomile had been calming. Valjean had recommended it once to Javert, and Enjolras was sure it would help his dad relax a little more, instead of the usual coffee. He holds his breath when he pries open the lid (strong scents were never pleasant to him), and scoops some of the leaves into a mug that was drying next to the sink.

When all is said and done, the tea begins to slowly steep. Enjolras is careful when he treks back up the stairs, trying to avoid another incident of slipping as he was holding precious, steaming, cargo in his hands. He lets out a breath of relief when he reaches the door of his dads office, pushing open the door with his shoulder and marching over to the desk. when he placed the tea on his dad's desk, Javert’s eyes only bore back into his, slightly confused.

Enjolras is sure he would figure it out.

He doesn’t wait for his dad's reaction of raising his eyebrows before looking down at the tea, to turn around and begin aiming straight for the couch that had been tucked on the side wall. It was a mellow red couch placed next to the door, partly hidden whenever someone had opened it, and most importantly, it was Enjolras’ couch. Ever dramatic, he dives straight into the couch, ignoring how his face had ended up hurting from the friction. It looked like his dad was going to be here for a while, and he might as well have strapped in. He puts a pillow under his head and throws a blanket over himself (it does not cover anymore past his waist, but it will do), and reaches over his head to grab a book from the nightstand next to the arm of the couch. he refuses to contort his body any further, so he keeps his body in the same place as he blindly tried to feel for the book.

Enjolras and his dad’s ideal quality time would always be merely to inhabit the same space, and the couch was testament to such. It didn’t matter what activities either of them had taken up doing, if he was breathing on the couch, it was a moment to bond. He keeps any books he had been in the process of reading on the shelf of the nightstand, as when he was not locked in his room working on the rebellion, this is where you would find him. Occasionally he would be sleeping, but mostly reading anything to expand his world view, or to be more well worded in literature. Today had been one of those nights for the latter, considering he had not been planning on anything but sleeping, as he begins to read the book.

He does not feel himself being moved, only registering what had transpired when he wakes up in his own room, tucked into bed with the blankets up until his chin. His curtains have been closed, different to their open state when he was last here, and he is grateful to not be forced awake by the light of the sun. 

His dad does not say anything about it at breakfast.

 

Gavroche was missing. How had they even lost a whole child. 

It was hardly ever that Grantaire had ever felt such vivid emotion, much less ones that engulfed his being, but he was livid. His composure looks almost uncaring, but the white knuckled grip on the backrest of his chair tells a different story as he processes the information that has just been relayed to him. The curls that have fallen to his face are poking at his eyes, making them water the tiniest bit as he struggles to keep himself standing behind his chair. 

His eyes are narrow, glaring at his feet while he contemplates every single moment that has led up to this. He had been refused when he asked them to divulge more information on the cause of the case and even what truly happened. The questions had left him no better than how he started. Left with only the fact that his brother was missing and he could not do anything about the matter. What was the use of being a prince if he could not even attain more information on his sibling?

His hands are beginning to get irritated from the wood he had been clutching, the wood digging and the slight rubbing sensation was beginning to turn his palms red. Not quite feeling any of this, he lost himself to his mind and the information that he had just received. He is only starting to compartmentalise everything he has felt, to pack it all away neatly with a little bow, when he realises something.

Why should he? 

His little sibling had disappeared for god's sake, not anyone else's, but his. His own flesh and blood that he had grown up with, that was his responsibility to make sure was safe, was out there with all sorts of malicious entities that would lurk at every corner. All while he was too busy drinking himself crazy to even notice what was transpiring, or to even be worth getting told by anyone.

It was not something that had ever stopped him, because he did not particularly care for any of the useless news, but now? Now? He had never intended for his brother's disappearance to even have been news in the first place, much less ‘useless’ news. What was any of this regret going to do about it? A world that had been covered in gray was not worth getting angry about. It was a mantra that had worked its way inside of Grantaire's brain for many years. Even so, now there was a feeling that was boiling, red, hot, and angry. The world has been thrown into a shade of red, like a bucket of paint had just been thrown onto the palace. All he sees is red, angry, powerful and defiant. It tints the palace in fury.

The loosely tied ribbon holding his life together had been frayed and torn. 

He was the last to find out. More than twelve hours later, six hours later than even the lowest ranks of the national guard. When he raises his head again, from staring at the floor beneath his feet, his neck is stiff as he turns towards the door. It is a mockery of human movement when he stomps out of his room, heading straight out of the door and down the long hallway. It does not matter that he is in his nightwear, no one would dare to say anything about it anyways.

It is a bitter feeling, he thinks, worse than the worst wines he had ever tasted. Something bitter that would refuse to go away, no matter how much he had tried washing it down, that had begun to fester into something more, grander. 

Halfway down the hallway, he distantly hears his name being called, but he blatantly ignores it in favour of focusing on his path. He continues down the hallway until a hand pulls on his shoulder, where he whips around, eyes ablaze, filled with a fire that not even wine could spark within him. “What?! What now!” More people to tell him important news late? He only softens when he manages to put away the haze of anger to see Marius, eyes wide and taken aback by his outburst. The other is trying to smile, to put on something that would reassure Grantaire, but it fails to pierce through Grantaire's heart and mind. He appreciates the gesture anyways, breath shallow as he turns back around with no explanation.

(Later, he would note how similar he was to the ever enigmatic rebellion leader.)

He keeps walking. In uneven steps down the hallway again, as a second pair of footsteps echo behind him, unsure but trying to keep up pace. He isn’t sure if Marius was trying to remain hidden and trail behind him, or whether he was trying to catch up so they could walk side by side. Nevertheless he does not slow down. His mind is clear for the first time, when he can feel the blood rushing in his head, and as he runs through exactly why he is angry. He keeps replaying the reason in his mind, almost afraid he will forget how to feel as he does now if he stops reminding himself. He doesn’t want it to fade before he got to act upon what had truly mattered.

He is heaving by the time there is a barrier between him and his objective. The grand hall he is about to crash into. It does not matter. 

He pushes open the doors with a bang.

"Do you think we should mention the symbolism in the notes or do I just write an obsessive ramble for a comment hdhdhshs""i can never drink tea again without thinking about enjolras""Or 9r oro orirhs" -Marius

I feel as if I keep apologising, but I am sincerely sorry for taking so long for this update. My finals should be over soon. The letters have been uploaded alongside this chapter. I promise we will be getting into the action soon, I found it necessary to build up some of their relationships and feelings first, as I do want to explore their characters themselves. Also, I am quite attached to these versions of the characters, so I do not quite want it to end prematurely.

I have two one shots currently in the works, that have been also halted thanks to life. Things should begin to return to normal soon.

If you'd like to talk or hear more about this au, you can contact me on my tumblr.