Title: A Man Who Broke His Pa-Roll
Work ID: 46495885
Author: JasperSpirit
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Crack, Bread, Bad Puns, Identity Reveal, Only rated teen because there's half a bad word at the very end
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert has just given a report to the mayor when Madeleine says something...strange.

Work text:

Javert stood in Mayor Madeleine’s office, finishing a report on his plan to thwart a crime he had reason to believe would occur, when Madeleine said something unexpected.

“Good. You had best be bready for the operation.” Madeleine said.

Javert froze. Did Madeleine just say…? “Pardon, Monsieur?”

Madeleine gave him a strange look. “I said, you had best be ready.”

“I thought you said…bread?” Javert questioned him.

Madeleine smiled innocently. “I doughn’t know what you are talking about.”

Javert’s eyebrow twitched. “You just did it again,” he snapped. Except, he didn’t snap, because that wouldn’t be befitting of his or Madeleine’s positions.

Madeleine said, “You have been thinking too much of crime. Perhaps you knead rest.”

“I don’t need rest,” Javert muttered. “I keep thinking I hear you making bread word-play. I have only known one man who would ever love bread to go as far as to create quips about bread.” He stiffened, clasping his hands behind his back. “Forgive me, sir. I would not presume to say…”

Madeleine’s gaze grew flinty. “No, go on, Inspector. Rye believe you were about to tell me about this man?”

“You said ‘rye;’ I heard you,” Javert accused. His eyes narrowed in suspicion.

“Is that any way to speak to your mayor, Inspector?” Madeleine said, his voice cool but with a hint of humor.

Javert looked down, ashamed. Of course it wasn’t; he knew better. “I’m sorry, Monsieur le Maire. The man I was speaking of earlier was a criminal at Toulon named Jean Valjean. He escaped from prison and then violated the terms of his release.”

“You could say he…broke his pa-roll?”

Gritting his teeth at the quip, Javert said, “Again, I apologize for my forwardness.”

“Think nothing of it,” Madeleine said, smiling slightly. “And be sure to take care during your operation.”

“Of course,” Javert acknowledged, and he quickly fled Madeleine’s office, ashamed at having thought Madeleine could be Jean Valjean in disguise.

*****

Late in the night, many days later, a messenger came to Javert and delivered the news that Madeleine had come forth as the elusive Jean Valjean.

Javert, still in his shirtsleeves, growled in dismay. “MotherFU—”