Title: blood turning to sand
Work ID: 46616671
Author: sworn_sword
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Western, Alternate Universe - Gender Changes, Heat Stroke, Angst, Hallucinations, Unresolved Emotional Tension, basically it's tough out here!
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 2/2

Summary:
The troubling thing about it is that Valjean had not been seeking Javert when she found her, face-up in the sand, looking for all the world as if she had already left it.
alternatively: this town ain't big enough for the both of 'em!

Work text:

The troubling thing about it is that Valjean had not been seeking Javert when she found her, face-up in the sand, looking for all the world as if she had already left it. 

Valjean will think of this in the days to come, and the thought will bring with it a strange sort of disquiet. Like the cool sand of the desert a few inches deep after a long, dark night, this feeling: seemingly bottomless and somehow strange.

But first -

 

First, there is a rare silence settling after the gun smoke clears from the fight. There are bloodied boys in the streets, and there is a woman slinging one of them over her shoulders and marching him up towards the mountain on the edge of town where the rich folks live. 

Valjean blinks sweat from her burning eyes as she trudges through the empty alleys, then the empty trails, with the boy on her back hanging silent and still. It is night, but the heat lingers, and the stink of fear and death thickens the air til it’s like a physical thing that Valjean must wade through, and try not to drown in, before her work is done. Her boots are deafening as they strike the hard, dusty earth, and she prays in the rhythm of silence and stride.  Let him live. Please, god, let him live. 

The climb is steep, and long, and Valjean picks herself up when she stumbles until the third time she falls, she finds she cannot get up. The scant seconds of stillness in the aftershock of her tumble has caused her legs to cramp, and as Valjean tries to rise, the pain she has been pushing away surges to the fore. She lets out a choked cry as she falls again and stays there, resting on her knees as Marius sags behind her. Her skin still prickles dirt and blood and burning heat.

It takes Valjean a moment to register that there is a sound in the darkness beyond her own ragged breaths and the wind shifting through the tall, dry grass. It takes another to recognize that it is not the wailing sound of a coyote, but rather the laugh of a human woman, who is standing, suddenly, in front of her.

“Javert,” Valjean says, and simply speaking the name breaks the spell on her body, as the old fear courses through her and propels her to her feet.  Not yet. Not yet. “This boy is innocent. He needs a doctor. Please, let me take him home, and then -” 

"I should have known,” Javert spits, looking down her nose at Valjean’s ragged countenance, the cheek smudged with dirt. Even standing, Valjean is a head shorter than she, and Javert wears her height hawkishly: in the set of her shoulders, the tilt of her head. “Always balking at your due. But to use a corpse as your shield...” she makes a wordless noise of disgust.

Valjean takes a stumbling step back, bringing her hands to grasp Marius’s limp wrists tightly. She feels the fluttering pulse that lingers there and stands a little straighter. “This man lives, Javert, though he won’t for long if he gets no help. Check for yourself - see?”

Holding out Marius’s hand to Javert, Valjean meets her eyes and feels the familiar rising of hairs on the back of her neck. Javert’s mouth twists downward, but she reaches out a hand and takes Marius’s wrist between her long, thin fingers. Her eyes remain locked on Valjean’s, but, as always, Valjean can divine nothing from them - they are cold as ice and so frightfully blank. 

Javert's gaze flickers upwards then back to Valjean. “Let’s get along, then,” she says, a bitter edge to her voice as she jerks her head up towards the path behind her. 

Valjean blinks, and Javert takes a measured step towards her. They are nearly chest to chest,  and Valjean doesn’t move, barely breathes. That strange, barking sound rises again from Javert's throat, and Valjean reflects for a moment that before tonight, she'd never heard the old Marshall laugh. 

“You must be a bigger fool than I thought if you expect me to let you out of my sight for this little mission," Javert says brusquely. "No, I’ll go with you, then we’ll return to town together and I’ll see you arrested myself. Get along, I said.”

With that, she seizes Valjean roughly by the elbow and the three of them begin to climb. Though Javert's grip is hard and unyielding, there's a wooden touch to her movements where they're usually so swift and sure. What she might make of that, Valjean doesn't know, and hardly dares consider. To think of asking the woman something as foolish as,  are you alright!  Through her haze of fear and pain and confusion, Valjean nearly laughs aloud at the thought. One thing's for certain, it would get Javert to show her teeth.

Of course, Javert does not offer to help shoulder her burden, but it is easier with a companion there all the same - even one so fearsome as she. The pressure of that claw-like grasp around her arm is heavy and certain, and it keeps Valjean from faltering again. It reminds her of where she is going, after this journey is done, and somehow that helps. She is so very tired, and ready to lay her burdens down. 

It seems as if Javert still expects some trick, though, because when they finally reach the house, she lets out a wordless grumble and pins Valjean to the spot with her narrowed eyes. Their usual inscrutability has lifted, and Valjean finds that she can read the disbelief, the incredulity there, just for a moment. “You,” Javert says, and then says nothing more, and when Valjean moves to free her arm from that steely grasp, she meets with no resistance. In the air between them, Javert's gloved hand hangs as if she still grasps Valjean within it and always will. 

“I will be back,” Valjean says, and looks away. “wait for me.” It is not so much a request as it is an utterance of what she knows to be true. 

When she steps outside again, however, Javert is gone. 

- - -

The next day, the sight of the Marshall's hat, tipped over and half-full of sand, is the first sign that something has happened.

(She’d made it back down the mountain last night, and to the edge of town where her horse waited. The country ahead was dark and bare, but in every raspy beat of her horse’s hooves on the dust, she'd heard the echo of a woman’s footsteps and she was sure that Javert must be following just behind, waiting to strike. In every whistle of the wind, she heard the lash as it sailed through the air, about to fall. Yet when she twisted around and darted her eyes across the landscape, there was nothing. Of course there was nothing.) 

Cosette has gone to care for Marius, and isn't expected back for many days. It had felt so unbearably quiet in the house without her that Valjean had decided, after the heat of the day had passed, to take her old mare for a ride across the dunes just to escape the walls pressing in upon her and the endless, torturous quiet. Urging her horse into a gallop, she had listened to the humming sound of the sand and watched the way it glittered in the sun, and thought no more of Cosette who was soon to leave her. 

But not much time had passed at all before she saw that hard slice of black amid the pale rolling hills and unease crept back in for an altogether different reason. 

For it is unmistakably the Marshall's hat. That wide, black brim and flat top is perhaps the most distinctive part of the shadow that has hounded Valjean all her life. Valjean picks it up and brushes it clean as she can, for though it feels unbearably strange to hold the thing, it's better than the sharp wrongness of Javert's hat abandoned and disheveled. Javert, who is always so meticulous, so careful of her possessions. Javert, who never goes bare-headed except in the moments she tips her hat to some higher power. 

After that, it is not long before Valjean comes upon her.

There is no trail of footprints to guide Valjean - the sand, in its ambivalence, sweeps tracks out of existence as soon as they form. So Valjean just continues to ride, Javert's black hat clipped to her saddle and a knot tightening in her chest, until she sees, in the distance, a hazy stumbling shape, and even without her hat, she knows who it must be. 

The heat rising in ribbons from the dunes turns her figure indistinct, an ever-wavering smudge against a backdrop of pure, empty blue. A greeting catches in Valjean's throat as she approaches, and suddenly she feels uncertain, as if the world itself has been thrown off balance. For her to call out to Javert - for her to approach Javert from behind! The mere notion is absurd.

Then, Javert takes another step forward, sways, and crumples to the ground. Valjean closes the distance between them before she can question herself, the knot in her chest close to snapping.

The sand has softened Javert's outline so much that she looks to be almost part of it, if not for the darkness of her coat and the red, raw cast to her cheeks and her throat where it emerges from her stiff collar. Although she had seen her walking a moment ago, Valjean almost thinks her dead as she rides up; she is so perfectly still. Then, her hands twitch outward, grasping fistfuls of sand and then letting them slide through slack fingers. She does not seem to register the presence of another until Valjean dismounts and comes to kneel at her side, casting a shadow over half her face.

Those pale eyes drift from the sky to survey the shape looming over her, and Valjean feels gooseflesh prickle her skin, despite the heat. Javert’s pupils are small as pinpricks. After a moment, they slide away again. 

"Javert," Valjean manages to say, just as she had last night on the mountain, but now there's something different to the dread that seizes her. She feels unsteady, distanced somehow from her body. She looks down on herself looking down on Javert and thinks - well, isn’t this strange.

Javert, oblivious, says nothing. Just lets out an uneven, toneless noise from between her lips, which are blistered and weeping from sun and heat. The frontmost pieces of her hair have slipped from their braid and hang, greasy and lank, over her face. Valjean reaches stiffly for her water skin and lifts it to Javert's mouth. 

A meager swallow is all she manages before seeming to think better of it, and she lets the rest of the water drip from the side of her mouth and pool in the sand. Still, the small mouthful seems to bring her back to herself somewhat, and after a moment she blinks her eyes back towards Valjean and holds them there with a bit of her old hardness. Her face twists in a scowl, even though it must hurt terribly with her skin burned as it is. 

"Of course you're here," she says, her words low and fumbled as if her mouth doesn't recognize their shapes. "Why shouldn't you be?"

Valjean doesn't quite know how to respond to this, so she doesn't. Instead, she says, "You need to get out of this heat," and ignores the part of herself that cringes at the words, demanding why she is not now running away, why she is choosing to tether herself to this woman’s fate. This is her chance to get away from this woman, finally, this woman, who - 

"No!” for a moment, that familiar, throaty authority returns to Javert’s voice, and it is an iron grip jerking Valjean from her spiraling thoughts. She rears up halfway, batting Valjeans hands away with frantic, half-fluid movements. “Get off me, you - " 

As Valjean reaches towards her again, Javert breaks off with a cry. She claws herself free from Valjean and scrambles to rise again, and Valjean notices then that her feet, too, are bare and blistered. She writhes herself towards the peak of the dune, heedless of the sand that's working its way into the glistening, raw flesh of her neck, her sides, even, where her shirt has ridden up. 

"Please, you're not well!" Valjean reaches out to still Javert's movements, and this time manages to grip her under the arms and haul her upright. With a frustrated groan, Javert whips her head back towards Valjean, and their eyes meet. 

Javert’s are wide, and glazed over with a wild terror that Valjean has seen in horses before they thrash themselves free of their riders and break their backs. She seems frozen in some sort of stupor now, arms stiff in Valjean's grip and chest heaving. “You must leave,” Javert gasps. “Why - why have you come?” Her gaze roves from Valjean’s face to the empty dunes beyond. 

It has reason to it, what Javert says. Why has she come? Yet Valjean can’t respond, can do nothing but stare helplessly back, immobilized and bewildered as Javert herself. Then, Javert’s eyes roll back, and Valjean barely manages to fumble her arms around her before Javert crumples to the ground, unconscious.

Unraveling. The world is orange and fuzzy red behind her eyelids, as hulking shapes descend upon her and claw at her arms, her neck, her face. They have Valjean’s eyes, mostly - dark brown, almost black. You never knew, they howl, and their gleeful voices are filled with teeth. You fool. You fool.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Of course, when Valjean had teetered into the cavernous house with that buffoon of a boy on her back, Javert hadn’t waited.  She had watched through the window, hand flexing and unflexing, as Valjean was relieved of her burden, as she retreated into the corner of the room despite the fretting of the women of the house. She had watched as Valjean kindly refused one’s offer to say the night, as she moved to tip her hat, and suddenly Javert knew: there would be no deception.

Soon, Valjean would make her excuses and come outside again, and Javert would take her away and resolutely ignore that old hangdog look on her face. 

Javert recalled the look well, for it had sat heavy on Valjean’s face when she untied Javert in the alleyway behind the saloon that afternoon (she recalled, too, the dry heat of the air in the back of her throat when the rope was untied; the sound of bullets nestling themselves into young men's flesh; the brief, sickening confusion of not being dead.) Another thought came in the wake of these images - and this one with a certainty that went somehow beyond knowing:  I have been wrong . The heels of Javert's boots scraped across the sandy rock as she backed away a few paces, swallowing roughly. She looked back up to the house and saw Valjean's head bowed; she imagined with no small measure of disgust that the chains soon to encircle that neck would be accepted in much the same fashion.

Soon, her feet were stumbling away, her body forced to follow as she plunged into the darkness. She slid down the path with a carelessness at odds with her typical comportment. But even as the thick-growing brambles clawed at her legs and her coat and scraped across the cheeks, she pressed on like one possessed, hearing nothing but the ringing in her ears which seemed to silence all else. 

She had been wrong. Once the conclusion had been reached, there was no retracting it. Javert walked through the night on legs that felt lighter than air and head bowed so low her hat nearly fell off, and thought. 

 When she had stopped thinking, Javert wished to burn. 

- - -

Let the sun scorch away the things she can't face until they flake from her skin like ash. Yes, that would be a fitting way to go. But no - instead, she is boiling. Feels the heavy, swollen pulse of liquid heat in her skin, along her muscles. It is nothing like the clean char of a brush fire, no matter how much Javert needs to be set alight.

Unraveling. The world is orange and fuzzy red behind her eyelids, as hulking shapes descend upon her and claw at her arms, her neck, her face. They have Valjean’s eyes, mostly - dark brown, almost black.  You never knew  , they howl, and their gleeful voices are filled with teeth.  You fool. You fool. 

A leaden, dizzy feeling in her stomach. She tries to hiss out some retort, to defend herself against the cackling, shadowy swarm, but when she moves her lips, she cannot hear herself speak. She tries to shout; the shadows fill her mouth. She gags, choking on bile as it creeps up her throat. A hand moves across her forehead, the soft touch sharp and abrasive against her skin. Javert thrashes her head this way and that while the chimeric figures look on. They bob up and down as they approach, as they join hands, as their hands and arms fuse together. 

Bulbous, three-headed giants, now. Still with those eyes. They jeer as Javert cries out, her body contorting in white-hot pain and fear.  Look at you  , they say with wide open drooling mouths and disgust in their voices. Spittle drips onto Javert’s face, her middle, and burns straight through to the ground.  Look at what’s become of you, after all this time.  

Long, slick fingers grab at her arm and dig into her flesh. She can smell the meaty smoke rising from the places where they’ve touched her, but this time she does not pull away, allows herself to sink into the molten pain. The world is swirling around her, the figures merging and dividing as they lasso Javert in glowing shackles.  You were never righteous  , they murmur, the words like an incantation, hotter than the irons binding her limbs to her body.  You were never true. See what you have done, Javert, in all your debased conviction. You cannot turn away.  

They are advancing, and she is incapable of movement. Her arm is aflame; her heart is pounding.  Javert, Javert, Javert, the shadows whisper, their voices low and ravenous, and Javert feels herself falling, and then they are upon her.

- - -

In the heat of the morning sun, back then, the Marshall had waited outside the church for the Mayor. The townspeople tended to give her a wide berth, for she lurked in the meager shadows cast by the adobe walls in the town square like a bird of prey waiting for its next kill. On this day, she'd watched the children of the street scamper across the dusty courtyard with narrowed eyes from under the brim of her hat. 

"You're not planning to arrest one of these little ones, I hope."  

A warm voice spoke from behind her, and then the Mayor was at her side. A teasing edge tugged at Madeleine’s words, but still Javert scowled back. "Disruption in the street," she said, "can turn ugly at any time. It's necessary to be prepared."

A quiet sigh followed, which might have been a laugh, and the Mayor stepped forward into the light of day. She did not look behind to see if Javert would follow. "I suppose there's no use in pointing out that ugliness is part of God's creation, too, and serves its own purpose," she said, a smile in her voice as she strode ahead.

"No, there is not," Javert replied, her measured strides keeping pace easily with the mayor, but careful to stay a half-step behind. She turned her gaze to Madeleine's broad shoulders and the hands linked behind her back. (Laborer’s hands, a voice in Javert’s head whispered, roughened from work and hard riding. The hands of a runaway, a cheat, a prisoner masquerading as mayor.) She looked back again to the retreating figures of the children in the town square.

"Just as I suppose there is no need for me to remind you that the law seeks to  address  those aspects of God's creation" - these words forced out between thin lips with thinly veiled derision - "that threaten the order we have imposed upon it."

Now the full, deep sound of Madeleine's laughter rang out, and the Mayor turned to face Javert for the first time. Her face was wrong, though, that much Javert could see - old, too old, older than she had ever been back then. Javert took a skittering step back.

"Oh, Javert," the Mayor said, and even her voice was strange - it seemed to double in on itself, echoing through Javert's skull a thousand times,sinking claws into Javert's innards . "You don't really still believe that, do you?" 

Then the mayor advanced with her strange limping gait, pinning Javert to the spot with eyes that shone big and bright and terrible. 

"You serve an absent master, dog," Madeleine spat, her voice heavy enough to warp the air. "There is no order in this world. No law. Least of all here."

Then Madeleine’s hands were at her throat. Those hard, calloused fingers circled the tender skin there. And Javert smiled, all teeth and cracked lips and blood.

 "I've found you - out at last," she gasped, her voice thin and hoarse. I've found you. She could no longer breathe. Her legs gave out beneath her, yet the mayor's hands held her up, keeping her hovering inches above the dry, cracked ground.

ok i know there's absolutely no resolution to speak of but don't worry - i have plans for them >:-}thank you for reading!! <3