Title: Private Constellations
Work ID: 46640467
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Modern Era, Established Relationship, Gardens & Gardening, Daydreaming, Fluff and Smut, Romantic Fluff, Valvert Week 2023
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Valjean brings Javert to a garden center to shop for shrubs. Javert is distracted.

Work text:

Javert looked over the rows of tiny plastic pots of baby marigolds and petunias with something bordering on despair. He was not sure how he had come to be the type of person who would spend his day off at a flower nursery, but here he was, at Jean Valjean’s side.  Javert found that he often surprised himself when he was at Valjean’s side. 

Valjean had said that he would like to add a little more privacy to the home that he had moved into with Javert. Javert now felt that Valjean had nothing to hide, but old habits died hard, he supposed, and after all he did want Valjean to feel comfortable in his own home.  And if Valjean was interested in a privacy hedge, then he would show Valjean that he could be, too.  

And Javert knew how much Valjean cared for plants, although he couldn’t really understand it himself.  Not that he couldn’t appreciate the natural world.  He loved to look up at the stars, their distant light clean and trustworthy.  Theirs was a rare beauty not often found in this world below, or so Javert had once thought.  He liked the quiet fall of snow, even if it did make things harder to get around in, and the way season followed season.  Regularity; things that had once reminded him of the natural justification of the law.

But Valjean appreciated the messy: he embraced the chaotic side of nature like the herbs and flowers intertwined in his cottage garden.  He liked to see new life rise from old compost:  that which would be otherwise thrown away used to nourish green and growing things.  Javert had firmly believed that trash belonged in the trash, but Valjean had set up compost tumblers in the backyard, and Javert went along with it.  Javert was trying to see it too. 

Now they were at the nursery, making their way through narrow, green, leaf-lined aisles.  The nursery wasn’t crowded, despite the beautiful spring day, since they had decided to go in the middle of a Monday when Javert was off work.  Retirees made up most of the rest of the customers.  They stood in the sun-drenched lot, Valjean wearing a straw hat that Javert had assured him was hideous but which he had not yet managed to banish from Valjean’s wardrobe.  Javert pulled a red wagon behind him - the nursery had child’s wagons rather than shopping carts, perhaps an aesthetic choice but one which made Javert feel rather silly.  But it gave him something to do with his hands.  Besides, despite his considerable strength, Valjean would likely be able to use some help with the unwieldy pots.  

Javert breathed a sigh of relief when they got past the potted trees - it was his opinion that they already had enough young fruit trees.  He knew what a temptation they posed to Valjean, and grew nervous as Valjean idly read over the tags on a peach sapling.  Already several small pots of flowers had found their way into the wagon.  At least these were healthy looking plants, Javert thought.  Valjean had a habit of buying from the discount rack of plants that appeared half dead - not because he couldn’t afford better, but because he wanted the challenge of nursing these plants that would otherwise be discarded back to life.  Javert had to admit that Valjean was successful at it more often than not.  He trailed after Valjean, who had stopped to watch a sparrow hop in and out from among the pots.

“Remember,” said Javert, “we aren’t here to look at the vegetables.  And you have plenty of seeds at home.”

“I’ve never been able to grow tomatoes from seed successfully,” replied Valjean.

“I doubt that very much.”

“It’s true, though.  It helps to have a greenhouse to start them off.”

Javert watched as Valjean carefully read over the tags for the various types of tomatoes, and selected several from among the seemingly identical seedlings.  Impatient, he purposefully reminded himself of how much he liked Valjean’s cooking, and how good these tomatoes would no doubt be under Valjean’s care. They left the section of young vegetables with only these few tomatoes finding their way into the wagon.  

Finally they arrived at their aim:  row upon row of potted shrubs.  Javert was reluctantly impressed with the diversity of shrubs on display, from colorful pink and white flowering ones that Valjean pointed out as azaleas to pointy evergreens.  Valjean stopped to admire several, and in a few cases to read over the tags, but was not able to make a final decision quite yet.  He had passed through them all and began again at the beginning.  

“How many pots of shrubs do you think we will need, anyway?”  asked Javert, wondering if the wagon would be sufficient now that he was seeing the rather substantial size of some of the pots.  

“Oh, it depends on the size of the full-grown bush,” said Valjean - rather unhelpfully, Javert thought.  “I want it to be dense, but I’m not sure if I want all the same species or not.  Perhaps we want a more wild, eclectic look.  Maybe we should have brought Cosette, to see what she thinks.”

“Cosette is having a perfectly good time out with her friends,” said Javert.  “Besides, you know that she is going away to college next year.  She won’t be around much longer to have an opinion on the shrubs.”

“Hmm.  Don’t remind me of any of that.”  Valjean kicked at the ground slightly, shoving around a bit of the dirt path ineffectually.  

Right next to the shrubs were the vines.  A tiny forest of makeshift trellises emerged from plastic pots, with more or less green covering them.  Valjean stopped by a simple little vine propped up by a tripod of three little sticks.  Valjean bent to examine the plant.  

“Valjean, no.”  The plant was small and simply unsightly.  

“It’s a star jasmine - a vine.  We would need some sort of fence or trellis to train it against, but this is perfect!  Just what I was looking for.”

“How is this possibly what you were looking for?” asked Javert, who had been picturing some sort of evergreen, boxwood-type thing.  Something which could be shaped into a proper hedge.

“I knew that I would know what I was looking for when I saw it.  I try to keep my mind open and be available to what happens to be in my path.  Serendipity, you see.”  Javert thought about that for a moment, and considered arguing some more.  But the truth was that Valjean had made himself open and available to a bad-tempered police inspector, and Javert had never been more grateful for anything in his life.  So he supposed that he couldn’t fault Valjean’s methods.

“Star jasmine, you said?”  He would try to understand Valjean’s decision.

“Yes.  The flowers are star-shaped. They open at night, and they reveal a wonderful scent.”  

“Hmm,” muttered Javert.  He thought of being out in the garden with Valjean at night, and suddenly the idea of a solid privacy fence seemed like a fantastic idea.  

“There’s lots of work to be done,” Valjean said, mind apparently made up.  “We will need to set up the fence first, and then train the jasmine over it. It will take years to get the full effect, but our patience will be worth it.”

“But if we are installing a fence, why not just make it a privacy fence and be done with it?  Why bother with the vines at all?”

“I feel like you aren’t getting into the spirit of this, Javert,” said Valjean, the slightest playfulness in his eyes.  

He had to admit that he wasn’t.  Valjean’s eccentricity charmed but occasionally baffled Javert.  

“The garden is a living being, almost; enveloping our home,” continued Valjean when Javert said nothing.  “There’s a sense of magic in a garden, or maybe of the Holy.”

Javert wasn’t sure about that.  What he was sure about, though, was the way it made him feel when Valjean was at work in the garden.  It was pure joy.  There was the purely sensual pleasure of watching Valjean apply those muscles of his until he was sweaty and dirty.  Then there was the curiously warming sense of watching Valjean care for their home, and seeing him create a space for them to share.  

And he loved having a space that they could share.  A physical manifestation of what they had built together slowly but surely.  They had been cautious with each other, dating for what felt to Javert like a painfully long time, becoming intimate on an emotional and intellectual level before the physical.  Javert had been more than ready, and the first time that the kind old virgin had sunk into him, clumsy and gentle and grateful, Javert had been in ecstasy.  

“I understand,” said Javert, who was beginning to.  Valjean beamed at him, and then continued to look through the shrubs and vines.  

Javert turned the idea of the hedge over some more in his head, now that his thoughts were running in this new direction.  After all, it wouldn’t hurt to have a little more privacy in the yard.  There was no need for the neighbors to have any idea of what was going on in their home, or outside of it, for that matter.  They had never had sex outdoors before. Javert could almost imagine how it might go.  

Perhaps they would be out in the garden watching the stars, or else enjoying the smell of the jasmine.  Perhaps Valjean would offer him his coat to lay on.  Javert didn’t need it; he wouldn’t mind being pressed into the earth itself by Valjean.  But Javert privately cherished these chivalrous gestures from him.  Valjean would lay Javert down with more care than he had shown for the coat.  He would kiss Javert, his lips pressing to Javert’s own insistently.  His mouth would trail down to nibble at Javert’s collarbone the way he had learned that he liked, and he would nuzzle into Javert’s neck in that way of his that Valjean could never seem to resist doing.  His beard would brush and tickle and tease.  

Valjean was never in a hurry when it came to love.  He would strip Javert bare to the night sky.  Valjean’s hands would slowly work him open, taking his time with Javert as if he were one of his delicate plants that needed gentle tending to thrive.  At last, when Javert felt like he would not be able to bear it anymore, Valjean would complete his claim.  He would spread Javert’s legs and penetrate him at last.  The welcome pressure of Valjean inside him would be a relief after the long buildup.  

Javert was self-conscious about some of his preferences.  He supposed he should be a more exciting lover, full of novel ideas and positions.  It was what Valjean deserved, after a lifetime of chastity.  But Javert was ashamed to admit that he preferred to simply be on his back for Valjean, under him and able to see him face to face during the act.  The angle was good for him, too:  too much so to pass up.   He dug his hand into his own thigh right in the nursery thinking about it. 

Javert would cling to his shoulders while Valjean fucked him.  Rather than the sheets, there would only be the coldness of the ground below, and the heat of the man above him.  The stars would look down on them, a mute blessing on their love.  They would be as quiet as they could, but there would be no room to be conscious of whether a neighbor might have left a window open on the fine summer night.  There would only be the night, the stars, and each other.  And the radiant white flowers.  

Star jasmine, reaching for the heavens, but firmly rooted in the earth.  The brilliant white petals would open for them, private constellations covering the fence.  As they caught their breath afterwards, the heavenly perfume would wash over them.  The sweetness would counter the salt of their drying sweat.  Old stories were written across the night sky, defined by others, part of Javert’s old world.  But now new constellations would continually open up for Javert, changing and beautiful, planted and tended by Valjean.  

He liked the idea very much, and the scrawny vine in front of him seemed beautiful to him now.  

“All right, the star jasmine, then,” said Javert, picking up the plant and placing it in the wagon.  

Valjean beamed at him, placing several more pots of jasmine with the first.  He took Javert’s hand in his, and gave him a kiss that promised far more.