Title: Hate
Work ID: 46848484
Author: orphan_account
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert’s pov, i love them
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Valjean has treated him with nothing but kindness ever since his attempted suicide.
Javert hates it.

Work text:

Ever since that fateful day, Javert has stayed with Valjean, leaving the law behind. The convict would not let the man out of his sight, making sure Javert eats his food and sleeps at night.

Javert can only imagine how pitiful he must be, full of self-hatred and fear of this sudden care. Nightmares plagued him at night and his will to gain strength is tenuous. Every time Valjean tries to comfort him and touch him, he is filled with repulsion, followed by rage for feeling that way. An endless cycle of anger directed at Javert and at the world itself.

It was another one of those days when sleep would not come, and Javert just wants it all to end.

He could leave, and surely Valjean would not stop him.

“You should have let me die,” Javert said.

Valjean sighed wearily. “I can’t let you do that.”

Curse this man and his infuriating generosity. Javert can’t be with someone so good, even if Valjean were a sinner. If anything, this solidifies Javert’s place in hell, tainting someone so admirable.

Why does he have to be like this? Can’t he see how this affects Javert? The saint and the monster can’t be any clearer.

“Stop with the pity, Valjean! I know you do not wish ill on anyone, but there is no hope for me.”

He knows he is being dramatic, and it only made him even more angry. He aggressively pushed his chair back, hearing it fall to the floor with a thud. In his ears it was deafening. Another mistake on his part. Javert can’t seem to do anything right. Or just.

“Javert,” Valjean said, trying to be calm. “Please, sit back down.”

“Stop treating me with care. Stop trying to comfort me. I hate it!” Javert heard himself say.

“Do you really?” Valjean asked, his eyes seemed to be staring at Javert’s soul.

Javert looked away. If he can’t hide, then he will leave.

“I have to go. You don’t need to worry about me, I am not your responsibility. I can make a life for myself somewhere,” he said, lies spilling from his lips. Moving quickly, he tried to pack a bag with whatever he could reach. But Valjean stopped him.

The man’s arms wrapped around Javert like a vice, strong and capable.

“You didn’t answer my question,” he murmured, so close to Javert’s ear that the man shivered.

Javert tried to free himself, but it was useless. Valjean had always been stronger, physically and mentally. Another trait that adds to his beauty, Javert thinks.

“Do you hate this?” Valjean asked.

It was the dreaded question. Javert hates himself but not Valjean. It could not be called hate. But to admit it would realize his worst fears.

“You haven’t given me a chance,” Valjean continued. “Maybe if you stop ignoring me and pushing me away, you could find some hope for yourself and for this world.”

What the convict was proposing was terrifying.

Javert doesn’t know what caused him to finally say something. Maybe it was the warmth of Valjean’s arms. Maybe the exhaustion was finally getting to him. Or maybe it’s because Javert couldn’t tell if it was he who was shaking or Valjean. Whatever it was, he managed to admit the truth.

“I’m scared,” he said, his voice a whisper.

He felt Valjean behind him take a deep breath.

“You think I’m not?” the saint asked.

Javert felt himself lean on Valjean, whose arms were still around him.

“Do you want to leave?”

No, Javert thinks. Not now, not ever. The man he’s chased all his life might finally give him the peace he’s tried to drown in indifference. But hate and anger was a blanket in his mind that gagged the words meant to be said.

Instead, Javert shook his head as if in defeat.

Before he knew it, Valjean carried Javert to the bed, their bed. Once they were both under the covers, Valjean pulled him close again like he wouldn’t dare let go.

And Javert doesn’t hate it.