Title: WALL-E & R
Work ID: 47188750
Author: NightLightSenpai
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy, Joly/Bossuet Laigle/Musichetta, Montparnasse/Jean Prouvaire, Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: WALL-E (2008) References, R as WALL-E, Enjolras as Eva, Super cute XD, Pining Grantaire (Les Misérables), Alternate Universe - Les Misérables Fusion, Courfeyrac Ships Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Soft Enjolras (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Summary:
This R-07 was the last of its kind. Quite a clever little thing it was, it’d taken scrounging up parts from others in order to keep operating. If his joints became rusty he would tear out the bolts and replace them, when the wear became too much he’d find something new. Sometimes, when absolutely necessary, he’d make something out of the little treasures he’d scavenged while working.If it was avoidable, though, he’d simply make due with what he had.He’d never willingly sacrifice his most precious things.

Work text:

The morning started the same way it had for centuries- with a sharp, shrill alarm jarring R-07 back into processing, complete with plenty of sand and dirt encrusting his joints, just grimy enough to make the journey from the dusty crate floor to the outside world thoroughly unpleasant.

The small, humanoid robot stumbled drunkenly out of the shelf cavity he had been laying on and slapped at a large button embedded in the wall. The wall protested loudly at the command but opened all the same, allowing large beams of sunlight to bore down onto where his rusted collar bones had opened up to reveal two solar panels. Pitiful in every sense of the word, the being balefully stared at the orange haze that hung in the air and blocked the sky from view.

Trash littered the land as far as the eye could see, piled up so high in large and small blocks that it disappeared into the smog. What was once a bustling metropolis was now a buried, rusty graveyard of what once was.
Countless more broken R-07’s were among this trash, their limbs sticking out of blocks where they too had been crushed up by those of them that still operated. The many large, hulking giant versions of the robot had also ceased movement, so the trash had been built on top of them.
Others lay still on the ground, sightlessly staring at the land they’d been damned to scratch at until they inevitably broke down.

This R-07 was the last of its kind. Quite a clever little thing it was, it’d taken scrounging up parts from others in order to keep operating. If his joints became rusty he would tear out the bolts and replace them, when the wear became too much he’d find something new. Sometimes, when absolutely necessary, he’d make something out of the little treasures he’d scavenged while working.
If it was avoidable, though, he’d simply make due with what he had.
He’d never willingly sacrifice his most precious things.

As a result of these circumstances, he looked quite mangled- definitely not fitting of his previous “tasteful” description. His black, synthetic hair was coated in dusty grime and the paint of his left jaw was chipping away, letting damaged steel shine through. His chest cavity barely sealed or compressed anything anymore, and his dark blue eyes had long been sun-bleached into a grey-blue. As a result of this, he had long taken to simply wandering about, collecting small things and creating his own miniature world inside his R-07 storage crate while half-heartedly continuing his job.

 

The quiet beeping of the alarm clicked off and his solar panels folded themselves neatly back into his chest cavity. Groaning, the robot rubbed the dust away from his eyes and hauled himself up.

“Up and add them, Grantaire,” he mumbled, “whatever that means.”

Snatching up a large, plastic hand cooler from inside the storage container, he took in the unchanging sights as he slid down the roof to the ground below. Once there, he bounced slightly, testing the joints in his ankles. It’d been a while since he replaced them, but they only moved with minor protest.
Continuing onward, he passed through mountains of garbage and paper, stepping over broken parts and pieces of other robots.
Every now and again he’d stop to grab or consider something to take. A finger, a replacement eye, and every now and again clothes. Grantaire wasn’t sure why he wore clothes, he just knew that he was supposed to. He was pretty sure that he had known why at one point. But he couldn't recall why anymore.

Eerie, continuous echoes from the Buy N Large CEO advertisement skittered out over the wasteland, theme music bouncing off of the crooked skyscrapers; projected from screens built so sturdily they had long managed to outlive every organic creature that had once inhabited the city.

“Too much garbage in your face? There's plenty of space- out in space! BNL Starliners leaving EACH DAY! We’ll clean up the mess while you’re away!”

Grantaire watched with distaste as the man grinned widely out at him.

“Look what you’ve done,” he snapped shortly, “why are you so happy? Do your clothes make you happy? Or was it leaving all of this? Leaving all of us?” he glowered bitterly at the advertisement.

“I hope you never come back- that you’re all on a starliner somewhere far away.”

The scene of spaceships taking off into a blue sky switched over to a field of brand new R-07’s and Grantaire’s mood dropped impossibly further. Their shiny, curly hair bounced as they smiled and waved to the camera, scooping up litter into their perfectly working gears and crunching out perfect mini squares to match their perfect, mini selves.

R-07’s originally had no language code, no ability to speak or even fully think. Grantaire had only accidentally developed this through countless decades of rebooting- but the ones projected onto the building smiled as if they could. Their dimpled grins and deep blue eyes seemed to burn through the screen, mocking his disrepaired form.

He ripped himself away, jittering with nerves and overheating gears.

Somewhere in that field, he had also been smiling at a camera, waving mindlessly.
There was no way to know which one he had been. Grantaire certainly didn’t remember.
His code was too damaged for that.

Talk of hover chairs, autopilots, and skydecks continued in the background, but he kept trudging forwards, climbing up and up until he reached where he had left off yesterday- at the top of a massive skyscraper of debris. He dropped to his knees, half-heartedly scooping up garbage into his compressor and scowling sourly when an inevitable, half-formed square fell out.

Just then- a flash of color caught his eye and he reached forwards, pawing away trash until a faded pink and purple bowl had revealed itself. Holding it up to his face, he snapped a picture with his eye camera and uploaded it to his memory card- searching for any matching information he might be able to dredge up from the bottom of his memory circuit.
It took a while, about ten minutes, as he had to restart twice, but eventually sentences appeared in front of his vision as he carefully cradled his new find.

“Ice cream bowls? What is that? Let’s see...ice cream is a food meant to be enjoyed after the last full meal of the human schedule- a dessert made of flavored blended ice and food coloring.
W-ow, they colored their food? That’s interesting,” he chuckled, carefully placing it into the cooler and going back to digging with a happy, short whistle.

He made several more interesting finds that day, though none were as exciting as the first. Eventually, when the sun got close to touching the tops of the furthest dump-piles, he picked himself up and trudged his way home- past the piles of silent R-07’s and through the windy forest of human sin.

As the door to his keep closed he began his daily ritual of switching all the lights on. The previously dark and cold space lit up. Strand by colorful strand illuminated many towering rotating shelves of trinkets and toys, tools and baubles, trash and treasure.
Grantaire knew the names of most, guessed the names of others, sometimes not even caring what oddity had pulled out of a hill that day. He just simply liked them. Of course they had their uses for him too, one rack in particular had every spare part of anything he’d ever need.
On another was a toaster, which he used to store his “video tapes”.

It was from this toaster that he now pulled a tape, putting it into an ancient player. Light burst from a small screen of only about two inches, starting a ‘movie’ of humans dancing and singing. He reached over to pull a large magnifier over top of it, making it big enough to see.

He hummed with the music, bouncing on his feet as he sorted away his treasures and dusted himself off. As he placed away the cooler he heard the voices slow down and returned to skootch forwards to watch. This was his favorite part. and he clicked a button on the side of his neck to record the last bit of it.
The humans, a man and a woman, were holding each other’s hands while smiling at each other as they walked on long green grass under a starry sky. They were singing softly and Grantaire couldn’t help but echo the words he’d listened to for so long.

“-to be loved a whole life long…”

As the music faded out as the couple walked away together, his gaze dropped to his own hands. They were dirty and shredded, certainly ugly- and most decidedly empty. He wondered what it would be like to hold someone’s hand the way the humans tended to. It must be very nice, as they seemed to be nothing but content when they did so. It seemed as though nothing mattered as long as they could stay in that moment.
At the sight of his fingers he felt quite old and hollow. It was a familiar emotion he detected- though nothing made him feel it quite as strongly as seeing those two happy humans singing about how fulfilled and free they are. He wondered what that would feel like to a robot. Grantaire rewound the tape, popped it back out, then safely placed it back into the toaster.

Before going outside to brush off dust from his cooler, he paused by the shelf. One of the bins was full of metal spoons. He picked the bin carefully up and placed it inside his chest cavity, being especially careful not to activate his compressor. Closing it shut, he paused for a second- waiting to see if he felt less hollow now that he had attempted a correction of the unpleasant feeling.
A second passed, and while he didn’t feel any less hollow in the way he couldn’t explain, Grantaire did like spoons- and it was nice to know that he had so many available to him should he wish to see them. The thought made him smile, and his spirit lifted.

Feeling rather proud of himself, he continued outside to smack the bin to get the dirt off- thinking that It wouldn’t be good if that were to get into his gears. While doing so, he glanced upwards to see a miraculous phenomenon, a hole that had opened up in the clouds to reveal the sparkling light of the stars.

Such a rare sight shocked the small being silent and all he could do was stare for a moment. There, sitting on the entrance of his home, the robot felt much smaller than he ever had before in his long, long life. His glass eyes reflected the lights as pushed the button on his neck and soon the cold, windy air was filled with the soft duet he’d recorded earlier.
He gazed at the sky, swaying slightly against the push of the breeze and the lilting of the human’s voices.

Unfortunately, his peace was short-lived. Barely a minute of admiring the rare sight had passed before his internal weather radar issued a loud Wind Gust Warning. Giving the cooler one last good smack, he dove inside with seconds to spare before the dust began a relentless onslaught against the door.

Letting the music continue, Grantaire finally crawled onto the lowest shelf in the far corner. Before shutting down, he reached over and pushed against the floor to make the shelf swing. Giving one last glance around the room for anything he might’ve skipped over by error, he curled up then activated his sleep mode.

 

—---------

The next morning started much the same as the last, with a shrill alarm jarring the poor thing awake. He began his routine of dragging himself around, collecting his cooler bag and refilling his solar charge on the sunny roof outside.
When the sensor dinged a welcomed “full charge” Grantaire set himself on his merry way, back to the same dumpsite he’d been working on for months.

Whistling a happy tune, he crunched away at the garbage as he picked to and fro between new unknown treasures. He found another interesting article of clothing his database could only identify as a “BRA”, with no other information. Still, he found it entertaining enough to keep and chucked it over his shoulder into the empty cooler. During the first hour also found several mini statues of creatures identified as a “duck” and “bulldog” which he spent nearly two hours researching, and found he rather liked them.
Among this pile of litter was a small metal circle with several other metal and plastic pieces attached to it, one which had tiny buttons on it. Grantaire poked them enthusiastically until a loud alarm went off several yards away from buried trash. It startled him so badly he chucked the item away from himself as hard as he could, only to immediately regret the action after the alarm stopped. He half heartedly dug around the spot where the alarm went off, but no sign of the thing showed.
Other notable finds included a blue box with a ring inside, an old ratty shoe, a “trophy”, and a paddle with a ball attached to it. However, after accidentally hitting himself in the face with the paddle-ball, he crunched it up out of sheer frustration while muttering about stupid humans and stupid inventions.

All through the day Grantaire crunched little squares while picking through odd pieces as the tower of trash grew exponentially higher. He learned what a “fire extinguisher” was, immediately vowing never to touch one again after accidentally detonating the thing and breaking a bolt in the process.
However, the first real breakthrough of the day was when he stumbled across a rather large metal bin. It was thick, rectangular, and made a hollow sound when he tapped on it. Excitedly, Grantaire used a hand laser to carefully saw down the middle of it, cooing in delight when it split open.
At first glance, it seemed nothing was inside. But as he looked to the very bottom, he could see a bright green vine poking its way out of the soil.

Grantaire’s gears ground to a sudden stop. He could feel the wiring and coding in his head start up then falter repeatedly, some important piece of information he had once known trying to come to the surface.
He’d seen one of these things before, he was sure of it…but it was so long ago.

A spark- there it was! A name!

“Pl-ant,” he whispered, kneeling down.

Ever so carefully, he dug his hands into the soil, scooping it up, and delicately dropping it into the shoe he had found earlier. For a minute he just smiled at the thing, excited to have found something so new and unique. Eventually, though, it was time to get back to work.

The day dragged on and Grantaire's' thoughts remained on the pl-ant as he crushed and sorted away. He found a bolt to replace the broken one, along with a trash can lid big enough to cover his entire 4 ft. body- along with a particularly interesting set of fuzzy pink metal bracelets, which were connected by each other by a short chain. A search told him they were called “handcuffs”, meant to detain humans who had done something wrong. Grantaire mildly thought it was kind of them to make the handcuffs comfortable, even if the human had been disobedient.
Liking the sentiment, he placed them in the cooler too.

The trek home was less windy than usual, and he scowled at the BNL man, (as usual).
He opened his R-07 storage home, and placed down the cooler and its contents. He was just about to place the large garbage can lid down as well when yet another peculiar thing caught his eye:

A red dot was shaking two and fro on the ground just a foot away from him.

It was so small but it completely caught Grantaire’s attention. It hovered and shivered, glowing so brightly that he was enraptured.
Leaning forwards, he slapped a hand over it- but it darted away just a split second before he could reach it.

“W-oah!” He cried. Creeping forward again, he pounced- and missed! The dot moved, this time not stopping and instead flying over rocks and debris. He was practically vibrating with excitement, unable to help the laughs sneaking out as he ran enthusiastically after it.

The chase was on. They flew over mountains of squares, over broken down overpasses and fallen skyscrapers- even over large broken R-07s. Gradually the turns got sharper and more wild until eventually the dot darted out into the wide open desert, where Grantaire finally managed to corner it.

He grinned at it, “What are you?” he muttered, creeping forward.

In fact, he was so focused on capturing the dot he only realized something was terribly wrong when a large circle of glowing red dots closed in exactly where the one he had just grabbed was.

All at one the ground started shaking, kicking up atmospheric dust and jarring Grantaire off balance. He looked around, seeing nothing- then peered upwards just in time to see the red hot fire of ship blasters coming to touch down right where he was standing.

Wordless screams tore themselves from him as he ran every which way, legs tripping and trembling with fear. Each direction he tried to escape through was blocked off by a wall of incoming fire as the engines got closer and closer to melting him where he stood. In a moment of panic-driven instinct he crouched down, digging frantically at soft dirt until he was mostly covered- then, snatching his garbage can lid to cover himself with.

His gears whined pitifully as the noise got louder and the ground grew hotter. Even the sizzling of his own metal heating up was audible and soon warning sensors were ringing out in his ears, warning him of overheating.

Just when he became sure he’d be reduced to a puddle of molten steel the heat started to subside and an odd whirring sound started above him.
When he thought he’d waited long enough he poked his head up, holding the garbage lid over himself for extra protection.
He couldn’t seem to see any threat, so he cautiously stood up. He had trouble crawling out of the hole he made for himself, having to heave upwards greatly to get out. When he did- he hit his head heavily on something above him, causing a metal thud to echo across the landscape.

Shivering, he crept forward until he could see the large ship that almost took his life. It was a white oval shape, and decidedly quieter than most machines Grantaire could remember encountering so long ago.
He watched as a bulky metal limb came out of a port in the side, using a net of blue lasers to scan the ground for an open space.
Moving closer, he watched as the limb retreated and re-appeared to drop a large, long cylinder onto the ground. It hovered over it- poking and tapping at invisible numbers on it before picking the cylinder upright and retreating once again back into the port into the side of the ship. Grantaire was now only about two yards away, close enough to hear the cylinder start humming- and close enough to almost get taken out by shrapnel when it suddenly split open. Sniveling, he crouched to the ground, peeking out from underneath the garbage can lid at what had emerged.
The sight froze him to the spot.

A large, beautiful glowing robot stood before him unmovingly. He was taller than Grantaire by at least half and stood proudly with tumbling rivers of golden hair and unstained, high-quality PVC Fiberglass skin. Veins of blue LEDs lit up thin trails every now and again over his arms and sides of his face before disappearing under pristine white and blue clothing. Even the details of his closed eyes had full lashes and red lips.
Grantaire scrounged in his memory for any other humanoid robot he might’ve seen in his life resembling this one, but nothing came up. Taking a camera shot, he dug around for any matches, or models he could find.
Instead, a painting from the year 1705 appeared, the figure closely resembling the being in front of him.

“Apollo the Greco-Roman God...w-ow, incredible,” he breathed, comparing the two.
It had been such a long time since anything was clean enough to be considered white on this planet- and he was almost hard to look at in the light of the sun.
Grantaire watched on, wondering sadly why they would abandon such a beautiful being- seeing as nothing survived down here for long.
Well, nothing besides Grantaire and those damned BNL ads, anyway. There wasn’t even anything this poor robot could replace his parts with if he got damaged.
Grantaire grimaced, tightening his hold on the trash can lid as his worry for this new robot began to mount.

Another flash of light and Grantaire gasped.
The blue LEDs on the robot flickered brilliantly as he opened his eyes. Startlingly blue and decidedly lovely, the robot stepped backwards, blinking slowly as if calibrating. He then began to walk away from the ship, determinedly scanning the ground using nets of blue lasers he projected from his eyes. Each time he would scan, a quiet, unpleasant noise would beep, and he’d start again somewhere new. Grantaire could only watch in apt fascination from the ground, quietly voiced his awe to himself in chirps, coos, and whistles.

Quite suddenly, the ship rumbled to life and Grantaire startled, peeking upwards at the engine turbines as they started to glow once again.
He ran for his life, slipping into this previous hole under the lid, gripped with a sick feeling.

“No! Don’t leave him here!” he cried out pointlessly, “There’s nothing for him here, he’ll break down! Please-you can’t keep doing this!”

Of course, nobody could hear him, and the ship lifted itself up and away- leaving him and this new being on their own in the silent shadows of the wasteland. Sighing, he slowly crawled back out of the hole, looking around for the new arrival.

There he was- watching with closed expression as the ship flew away, hair and clothes fluttering in the wind. Grantaire’s heart sank lower and lower, hoping to god that this robot had no sense of self or ability to think- if he did he’d surely sink into madness or despair.

However, the ship had just barely left the atmosphere when a stunning, blinding grin blossomed across the robot’s face. Melodic, lovely laughs echoed across the ground as the robot turned and broke into a run across the desert floor. Grantaire watched as he leapt into the air, activating flight jets in his legs and soaring into the sky

The robot did joyful leaps and half-turns, flinging his arms out and landing on one foot, perfectly balanced all the while. He performed great, sweeping scoops towards the ground, purposely flinging dust up into impressive whirls and flying so fast there were sound barrier breaks, followed by a wall of sand so thick Grantaire would have a hard time seeing through it. As he’d fly, streams of air were left behind him like a cape, like he really was a god.

After a while the robot seemed satisfied and floated back down in a graceful twirl, landing softly.
A soft whoosh of air blew across Grantaire’s face as he hid behind a large rock and he couldn’t help but sigh, leaning against it. Unfortunately, the poor thing leaned a bit too hard, breaking off a small chip that scattered out into the opening. In a flash, the new robot whipped around, flinging a large bolt of blue plasma at the rock and blasting it into pieces.

Grantaire was small enough to get away with hiding behind what little chunks remained of the rock while trembling- now a bit fearful of this new being. Still, luck seemed to be on his side as the new being simply turned away, picking up his previous task of scanning the ground.

As if pulled by an invisible magnet, Grantaire followed.

—---------------------------------------------

It’s a difficult task, being quiet when you’ve never had to before- especially when one is a 4ft tall rusty old robot- but Grantaire made it work. For hours he followed this new being as he made his way into the city, scanning while floating around. They passed by Grantaire’s current junkyard and under broken overpasses as they crawled further and further.
At one point the new robot stopped to consider a broken R-07 and crouched down to scan it. An odd look passed over his face- similar to melancholy, which only proved to complete Grantaire’s earlier theory: this robot was a complete and full AI.
It was entirely possible, even likely, that it had coding far beyond anything Grantaire could think of.

Said robot stood up then, moving to continue forwards.
He must have tripped the sensor for one of the automatic BNL messages, because that awful theme music and bright light suddenly flared to life. The robot jumped, swinging round to face it. The ad was barely on for a second before the building it was being projected onto was blasted to shreds.
It still played, of course, only now being projected onto pieces of rubble.
The new robot seemed unnerved. His bright blue eyes were wide with shock as he traced the light to a large projector on the opposite building. To Grantaire’s surprise, he then watched the entire ad.
When the scene depicting the field of R-07’s came, he turned to regard the broken one behind him.
He stared at it, then back to the screen, where all the new ones were smiling and waving, then back to the one on the ground.
Grantaire felt like shrinking a little, knowing he looked much more similar to the broken one than the one on the TV.
Still- nothing on this planet could compare to the untouched perfection of this new robot, as everything here was dead, and Grantaire wondered what he thought about this planet. Was scared of what he was seeing now that he’d been abandoned just like Grantaire? Maybe this robot was searching for more parts- in case of a breakdown.

As the ad started up again, a fiercely cross expression graced the robot’s face and Grantaire jumped with surprise as he suddenly turned on his heel- shooting the projector into silence.

Maybe it was the sudden, sassy decisiveness of the new arrival that did it- or the relief of knowing he’d never have to hear the Ad again, but an amused snort tore itself unexpectedly from Grantaire as he hid behind a pile of tires.

A split-second later he was running for his life, screaming as he jumped from tire-pile to tire-pile, each being blasted away until he was left crouched in a shaking ball, covering his head from the falling debris.
The new robot stepped closer, the humming of his weapon audible.

“Who are you?!” The robot demanded in a strong, confident tone as he towered over Grantaire.

Grantaire peered upwards, awed into silence by the way the dust and light created a halo around this new being, who seemed incredibly confused at Grantaire’s presence.

The robot gave him a once-over with a furrowed brow, which Grantaire was amazed he was programmed to do. If he didn’t know better, he’d assume this robot was a human.

He did know better, obviously. Humans weren’t as lovely.

Slowly, Grantaire stood up. He was only a bit higher than the other’s hip and he shifted nervously from foot to foot. He wanted to answer, but wasn’t sure if it was a good idea as this new robot seemed particularly sensitive to sound and Grantaire really didn't want to be blasted into pieces just yet.
It dawned on the other robot what he had found, and he quickly scanned Grantaire over. Once confirmed, the other quickly put away his gun with an scrunched expression- as if oddly regretful of his outburst.
He peered over his shoulder at the unmoving R-07 on the ground and compared the broken one to Grantaire with a puzzled crease to his forehead and pressed red lips.

Grantaire- still too nervous to say anything, desperately wondered what this robot was thinking and what he thought of the broken thing in front of him .

Then- an annoying sensor on the new robot’s neck started beeping, as if reminding him to get back to work. He shook himself a little, lifting off the ground a bit higher and scanning the surrounding areas for any more working R-07s.
Finding none, he floated back to the ground.
Giving Grantaire one last considering stare, the robot sighed.

“I know you can’t understand me, but well done. You’ve hung on for a very long time and you’ve done a fantastic job- you all did. Thank you,” he said softly, raising a hand and gently patting Grantaire’s shoulder with it.
Then, as if spurred on by his sensor, he floated off determinedly- scanning the ground for whatever directive he was focused on.

Grantaire let him go until he was a ways away, strangely shaken. He stared at his shoulder, sure it was melting away despite it appearing perfectly whole.

‘Well done’ he had said. Nobody had ever told him ‘well done’. Grantaire wasn’t even sure they were supposed to- as he was just following his own directive.
This new robot didn’t even think he had a mind of his own, yet he still thanked him- thanked them all. Even the dead ones on the ground were thanked by this perfect, glowing being- who wasn’t even a human benefitting from their labor.

Grantaire stumbled onward, eager to learn as much about this new robot as he could.

 

For most of the rest of the day, Grantaire was successful in following him silently- only getting caught a couple times. The first time the new robot realized he was being followed, he’d paused in surprise. When Grantaire didn’t do anything but stand silently, he simply continued floating and scanning- probably assuming coincidence.
Each time Grantaire was spotted after that the robot only spared him a small, baffled smile or a curious glance.

At one point, he’d followed him into an old supermarket, watching from the top of the stairs as the other continued to scan. It was then that he accidentally bumped a cart with his elbow, causing them all to become unbalanced and rocket towards him.
His reflex screams as he ran down the stairs and away from the piles speeding metal seemed to catch the attention of the new robot.
Grantaire was pinned to the sliding doors, about to be crushed by the incoming metal stampede when the other snatched him off the ground and into the air- out of harm's way.

Gently setting the smaller robot back down, he gave Grantaire an amused shake of his head and a soft laugh before continuing his task. Grantaire watched him all the while, trying not to jitter too loudly or, god forbid, whine.

As the day continued on and the robots covered more and more ground, the sun had made its way across the sky. Seeing this, the new robot settled down in the current junkyard- sitting against a pile of squares. He seemed to pause, looking around before his eyes landed on Grantaire, who had been silently following nearby since the supermarket incident.

“Go back to your plug-in port- it’s dark, you need to shut down,” he said, peering at him.

Grantaire only tilted his head, scanning his search history for “plug-in port” and “shut down”- as Grantaire only ever really solar charged in the morning- and he wasn’t sure what the modern equivalent of “shut down’ was.
To him- shut downs meant death.

The new robot seemed to pause at Grantaire’s confused pondering.

His expression cleared up, “Ah shit- that’s right, your model doesn’t have OOR Intake hardware. Probably not even key word recognition,” he mumbled to himself, glancing back up at Grantaire.

His eyes seemed to pierce right through him, always intense as he asked “Why are you following me? Even damaged code shouldn’t cause this.”

This time, Grantaire almost opened his mouth to answer, but the new robot stood back up again and walked over, circling Grantaire as if looking for something. Grantaire’s wiring almost shorted out when he felt a soft hand brush his hair away from his neck.

“Where is your year's production number?” the new robot muttered lowly to himself, seemingly focused as he hovered over the smaller one.

Grantaire knew he wouldn’t find it there- as he’d had to replace the labeled neck plate with a newer model’s some years back after his neck had been broken by falling debris. This one didn’t have any engravings on it like Grantaire’s originally had, so the only way to find out would be to do an internal review. He found it an odd question, but figured if he knew the answer he’d be able to have a reason to start a conversation- so he started quickly scanning through data.

However, the new robot quickly lost interest again, seemingly having given up. He walked back to his spot and sat down, only giving Grantaire one last puzzled frown before closing his eyes. The blue lines in his skin gave one last burst before going dark.
From then on, he didn’t move.

Grantaire tripped his way over, concerned. Cautiously, he waved his hand in front of the other’s face, then tapped his shoulder when he received no response. Unsure of what to do- he hunkered down in front of his unmoving companion, pondering the wild events of the day.

Through the night, he made several trips back to his R-07 storage container, putting away his finds of the day, checking on the ‘pl-ant’, and grabbing a couple choice things to bring back to his new friend.

Throughout the night he kept himself busy by building a scale-model of his companion, made of PVC and a lucky yellow rug he found for the hair. It wasn’t nearly as beautiful or impressive, by nature it couldn’t be- but he hoped that he'd be pleased with it, Grantaire certainly was.

When the morning came he recharged his battery on the roof of an old building, where the other was in view. He had just finished when a soft, bright whirring noise alerted him to the revival of his new friend.

The robot took a moment to awaken, blinking several times and recalibrating. He seemed visibly shocked when he saw the statue of himself, so much so that he stood up and circled it with wide eyes.

“...How?” He asked, then seemed to notice Grantaire crushing nearby garbage into tiny squares, trying his best to seem inconspicuous. His companion watched him in astonishment, peered back at the statue, then looked back at Grantaire.

“Combeferre is going to short-circuit when I tell him about this,” he laughed, shoulders shaking.

The shutter sound of him taking a screenshot was audible from where Grantaire was standing and he smiled to himself.

“You coming?” His friend called, and Grantaire peered over his shoulder at him, whistling as he turned around to follow.

Then the two were off, Grantaire following behind, making himself useful by cleaning up any area his companion decided to stop at, only leaving behind his piles of trash when beckoned onwards.

At one point he started digging around for treasures as his friend thoroughly scanned through large piles of transportation vehicles. He whistled with excitement when he pulled out a familiar metal ring with plastic attached to it. Forgetting himself, he gleefully pushed at the buttons before being thoroughly reminded on why he shouldn’t do so.
Just as it had before, so many long hours ago, the plastic button set off a horribly shocking alarm from one of the vehicles close by- startling him so badly he chucked the device and bolted to his companion, who already had his weapon out and trained on the noise.

The other robot stepped in front of Grantaire then slowly moved forwards to investigate the blaring sound. Grantaire began to teeter after him, but was pushed back with a shiny, lithe white hand.
His companion didn’t move his eyes from the possible threat, but seemed very stern all the same, so Grantaire stopped moving forwards and watched as the other circled the vehicle, pausing every now and again to consider something. Eventually, the horrid noise ended and there was nothing else to look at.
Still- the other robot didn’t seem content with staying in that area. After one last scan of the ground he turned and carefully picked Grantaire up and flew off until he found a more promising patch of trash for him to study.

He barely spared Grantaire a glance before going back to his task, and Grantaire once again toiled over how to start a conversation when he’d never had to before.
He spent so long researching and thinking about it that he almost didn’t notice his companion’s increasingly agitated behavior.
Each failed scan seemed to deepen the scowl on his face, and he began slamming things closed when he scanned the inside.
He’d shake his head, sigh, or say words Grantaire had never heard but were positive didn’t mean pleasant things.
They covered more and more land, and it barely took five scans before his friend would deem a stretch useless.
After a while his companion even stopped flying, instead preferring to stalk around on the ground with great leaping steps that left his golden hair bouncing and Grantaire struggling to keep up.

It all seemed to hit boiling point, however, when they stumbled into an old boat yard.
Massive hulking cranes and freight ships towered over them, casting deep shadows against the bright sky. It was an impressive sight, but his friend seemed too disturbed to care.
Grantaire jogged behind him, slightly flighting to keep up, when a loud creaking noise attracted his attention upwards. There, a large metal magnet was moving forwards, hovering over his companion. He sounded a warning whistle, but it was too late. The other robot was abruptly pulled off his feet and slammed against the magnet. Grantaire, who was too far down to have ever had this problem, was rightfully alarmed and ran forwards until he was directly underneath the swinging metal. Once there he let out a loud stressed whistle to where his stunned friend was pinned.
The robot had a furious expression on his face and growled as he struggled, shoving fruitlessly to get away.

“I’m fine, I’m good! Just- let...me, oh god DAMN IT!” he cried, slamming his palm flat against the underside of the magnet and blasting it with all his might, using the momentum to fly towards Grantaire and scoop him up. Once out of fire range he let all his frustration out in the form of absolutely decimating both the magnet crane and the ships beside it. One by one they fell, smashing into each other and lighting up in great balls of flame. It was unlike anything Grantaire had ever seen before and couldn’t help but gaze in awe at the destruction as his friend lowered them both to the ground until they were sitting beside an old iron anchor.
Grantaire glanced over, concerned at the tense silence.
His friend was staring at the wreckage, no longer seeming angry. Instead he seemed dejected and discouraged. It was so out of place on the robot’s face that Grantaire automatically let out an inquisitive whine, which his friend didn’t seem to hear.
It was unsettling.
So incredibly unsettling.
This robot, which had previously been so full of life and enthusiasm, was now staring sightlessly ahead, just like the R-07s Grantaire passed everyday. But they’d been dead for centuries. This one was still alive.
Steeling himself, Grantaire tossed caution and potential embarrassment to the wind.

“Is there something incorrect?” he asked quietly.

It took about two and a half seconds for his words to register. When they did, his companion’s head snapped to the side at an alarming speed, staring at Grantaire in shock.

“You can speak,” he said, incredulous.

“Badly, I think,” Grantaire confirmed, twisting his shirt nervously.

“You can think!” his companion cried, now crouching on his knees, facing Grantaire in amazement.
He was absolutely stunning in his enjoyment of this new discovery.
Grantaire wasn’t sure how, but the robot’s skin was flushed with excitement- and he was once again awed by the advancement of technology.

Grantaire gave him a lopsided smile as his friend stood up, pacing around with a wide grin.
“This is incredible! I can’t believe this- I couldn’t believe there was anything functioning here, much less an original robot from Operation Cleanup- but to find you’ve somehow gained sentience too!” he paused suddenly, turning to Grantaire with a look of trepidation.

“How long have you been awake? What’s your manufacture date?”

Grantaire was pleased to be asked this, since he’d already looked it up the day prior.

“I was made on March 2nd, 2106- version 0.7,” he answered.

The robot in front of him paused all movement for a moment, becoming oddly serious. He crouched back down to Grantaire’s eye level.

“What’s your name?” he asked, tone somber, startlingly more subdued compared to his previous behavior just a moment before.

“What?” Grantaire asked, confused.

“Your name, not your model number. The human name you were given to be addressed by the public,” he said kindly, blue eyes concerned, “you were given a model name, a human name, and a courtesy nickname for the humans’...convenience. You did get one, right?”

Grantaire brightened, finally understanding, “Oh! Yes! Yes I did get one, it’s Grantaire. I believe it was supposed to be a human “pun” off of the Capital R from the R-07 manufacture title. They’d call me just R sometimes, too.”

The other smiled encouragingly and paused for a moment before starting again.

“Grantaire,” he started, seemingly hesitant, “How long have you been alone? You were manufactured, god, nearly seven hundred years ago…are you the only one still alive?”

The question struck Grantaire as odd in terms of wording but he was sure he could figure it out.

“I can find out but it might take me a couple minutes- the data logs for that information are quite far back,” he promised, not liking the concerned expression on the other’s face.

“I’ll wait,” the other promised, brow set.

Grantaire nodded, settling into a more secure position before beginning the lengthy task of scanning through centuries worth of information.
Six minutes and thirty-two seconds later he resurfaced, startling his companion.
“My last sighting of another functional robot before you was September 18th, 2112,” he informed him, happy to have found the information faster than normal. His delight faded, however, at the horrified expression on his companion’s face.

“Grantaire… that’s 693 years. The rest died after only seven years?” he asked, clearly horrified.

“Oh no,” Grantaire replied, and the other robot looked unsettled as he continued, “most broke all at once one day in 2110- they all dropped to the ground and stopped working. Only a couple of us were still functional.”

“And you’re the only sentient one? Were there any others?” he asked.

“I’ve always been the only one awake,” Grantaire replied.

Something about admitting it out loud made the growing sensation of emptiness in his chest expand exponentially.
Grantaire didn’t like it.
He wished he’d brought his spoons.

“Grantaire,” the other called, and he looked up.

Those shining, ceylon blue eyes gazed at him with profound sadness, and Grantaire found himself trying not to shudder as unstained ivory hands grasped his dirty, rusted ones.

“Grantaire, that’s a long time to be alone- are you alright?” The other robot asked, peering down at the other’s shocked face and soothing his hands in what he hoped was a comforting gesture.

“I,” Grantaire started, looking abruptly away, “am functional.”

-

Despite the sneaking suspicion that Grantaire knew what he meant, the other decided to drop it.

“My name is Enjolras, but most call me Enj, it’s my nickname” he offered, peering hopefully at the small, hunched figure before him.
Thankfully, it seemed to do the trick- because Grantaire perked right up, his dirt-stained curls bouncing every which way as he shuffled around enthusiastically.

“That’s a lovely name, I’m surprised your nickname isn’t Apollo though, since his painting showed up in my database when I first saw you- you both look very similar, you know,” he babbled, horrified at his sudden inability to shut up.

“Apollo? Who’s that?” Enjolras asked, confused and unable to recall hearing the name before.

“He’s an old human god, Greco-Roman, I think. He dates back to the 8th century, BCE!” Grantaire blurted out, unable to curb his enthusiasm now that he knew his name. Enjolras stared at him, clearly impressed.

“Grantaire, that’s amazing, how do you know about that? I can’t recall anything in my database about it,” he breathed out, watching his companion nearly vibrate with enthusiasm.

Enjolras felt his heart squeeze as he watched Grantaire light up- painfully endearing as he babbled away about something Enjolras had never heard of. It was incredibly difficult to keep his mind from thinking about what this stubborn robot had been put through.

He couldn’t imagine being away from Combeferre’s caring knowledge or Courfeyrac's energetic compassion. His friends; Feuilly, Bahorel, Musichetta, Bossuet- Eponine and her siblings Azelma and Gavroche, Jehan and Joly, Cosette, and even that moron, Marius- they were all precious and dear to him. After this mission was over, whether he was successful or not- he’d be returning to them.

Enjolras felt uneasy now. If he failed this mission- if he failed to find a plant or proof of sustainable life on Earth, Grantaire would be alone on a dead, empty planet- forever surrounded by the remains of robots that looked exactly like him.
This silly, clumsy, wonderful being whose incredible mind and sense of self was born completely out of wild chance- would end in such a horrible, lonely way, and Enjolras would be powerless to stop it.

Enjolras had often been scolded by Combeferre for wearing his dismay so blatantly on his face, so he tried his best to conceal it now, not wanting to cause Grantaire any more stress than he’d already had.
He waited for a pause in his companion’s explanation of Greco-Roman culture and history before gently interjecting.

“Grantaire, I’d like to hear more, but it’s getting late and I’ll need to shut down soon. Where do you stay at night? Do you have a home?” he asked, silently praying that his companion did have a home and he didn’t just ask something weird or insensitive to the seven-hundred year old robot.

Grantaire, however, was already thinking of all the fascinating trinkets waiting at home for him to show Enjolras, and beckoned him up quickly.

“I do, but it's a ways away so we should probably hurry,” he said eagerly.

“Is it alright if I fly us there? It’s perfectly ok if you’d rather walk,” Enjolras asked carefully, standing up and brushing himself free of any debris. Grantaire seemed fine with the suggestion, even lifting his arms slightly to assist ease of carrying. It made a funny sight, something so old reaching up like children do, especially with such a serious expression, but Enjolras was able to tamp down any undo laughter that might’ve been deemed offensive.

Soon they were on their way, Grantaire held against his chest as they sped across the sky, over countless towers of trash and stone.

“You really did all this?” He asked in awe, and Grantaire peered downwards to look thoughtfully at the ground.

“Uh-huh, most of it anyways,” he replied, “but my compressor is damaged, and I can’t find any new parts for it anymore.”

“New parts?” Enjolras echoed, sending Grantaire a baffled glance.

“Yep, when any of my pieces start breaking down I just sc- ENJOLRAS LOOK OUT!” he cried, spotting a massive dust wall of wind tearing its way across the land with increasing speed.

Enjolras whipped around, spotting it with just enough time to get them both down the ground before it ripped its way through.
One moment Grantaire was in front of him, the next he was blinded so completely he couldn’t see anything at all.

“Grantaire?!” He screamed as loud as he could, but it hardly seemed to make a difference. The wind howled much louder than he did and he could feel a twisting worry for both himself and his more damaged companion. Sand was difficult to get out of gears anyway but for Grantaire it must be hell.

“Grantaire!!” he tried again, despair starting to set in as he was continuously buffeted backwards by the violet gusts. Then, a cold, hard hand snatched his wrist, tugging insistently. Relieved, he quickly followed, placing himself between the wind’s direction and where he could feel the pulling from. It wasn’t much, but hopefully he could provide some protection.

The two robots had been lucky, landing close enough that the container was nearby, and soon they were stumbling inside, grateful to be safe again. The door closed them into complete darkness, and Enjolras rubbed the dirt away from his eyes while Grantaire shuffled about somewhere to his left. Then a colorful string of purple and white lights blinked to life before him, dancing across the ceiling to illuminate a museum full of trinket-filled shelves.

Enjolras slowly took it all in, peering down at the carefully organized collection of memorabilia collected over seven hundred years. Grantaire watched, increasingly pleased at the appreciative whistles and praising remarks.
Some artifacts were recognizable, like spoons and clocks. Other things seemed like relics of an alien civilization, like an oddly shaped scaly creature of some sort that had been pinned to a small wooden board. Enjolras stepped closer, eager to inspect it-

“HERE’S A LITTLE SONG I WROTE! YOU MIGHT-” the creature suddenly sang, wiggling its odd glistening body in a quite disturbing manner.
Enjolras flew back, weapons trained on the threat- preparing to fire. Seeing this, Grantaire flew over and grasped him by his arm, tugging insistently until he’d successfully dragged the other away.
Taking the hint, Enjolras quickly disarmed and attempted to ignore whatever the hell it was he’d just triggered.
Suddenly, Grantaire was skipping off to a corner to grab something before running back over and eagerly putting it into Enjolras’ hands.

Unfortunately it seemed Enjolras would have to brush up on his acting skills even more today, as he was disgusted to find that what Grantaire had just placed in his hands were a pair of fuzzy pink handcuffs- which he was well versed in thanks to Courfeyrac's lack of social filter.
Judging by Grantaire’s eager eyes and bouncing steps, he had no idea what they were actually used for.
He offered his best smile and thanked his lucky stars when the other seemed pleased enough to switch it with something else.

This time he was given an interesting metal utensil- made of thin wire and an odd wheel. Reaching forwards, Grantaire grabbed the handle of the wheel and spun it, making the set of wires fold together dramatically in demonstration before wandering off to find the next thing. Enjolras was fascinated, twisting it faster and faster. Unfortunately, it was a little too fast- and the wires broke off and ricochet off into a different part of the container. Cowed and horrified, he turned to where Grantaire was bouncing towards him and held out the evidence of his mistake, hoping he hadn’t just broken something precious.
Grantaire barely spared it a glance though, even snorting at the burn marks on it caused by the speed. He then offered a strange, thin piece of plastic filled with tiny bubbles to Enjolras.

“Try popping this, it is so satisfying!” he urged, handing it to him before scooting off again.

Enjolras did as he was told, pushing at the little bubbles until a sharp ‘pop’ sounded. Unbidden laughs rose from him as he popped them faster and faster. He aimed for the last one, but the sheet had no more structure and slipped out of his grasp. By then his friend was back again, offering up an odd, whitish glass dome with expectant grey-blue eyes.

Enjolras took it with a smile, pleased to be trusted with so many treasures.
Astonishingly, the second he touched it- it glowed with bright warm light. It seemed that Grantaire was also shocked by this, because he swiped it back to inspect it- but sputtered incredulously when it died the second it left Enjolras’ hand. He tested it a few more times, placing it into Enjolras’ hands to watch it glow, before removing it and shaking it a bit with a scowl.
Enjolras could only laugh when Grantaire, fed up and shaking his head, replaced it with a colorful cube.
It only took about two seconds for him to sort the cube’s colored surfaces, but when his friend came back to replace the cube he seemed perplexed.
They switched items, with Grantaire inspecting the cube and Enjolras poking at the odd, black plastic tape given to him. There was a bit of space out of the tape where a thin black film protruded, and he gave it an experimental tug, pleased when more of it came out.
Grantaire, who had given up on making sense of the cube’s new pattern, turned and spotted this.
It seemed in that moment that all of his bolts would shake loose and he’d come apart in a rusty pile on the floor.
He panicked- snatching it from Enjolras’ hands with a tortured whine and running to a shelf with a screw pusher on it. He rewound the tape and rushed to put it in the player, tapping his fingers together in a desperate hope that it’d still work.

“Oh no, Grantaire I’m so sorry,” Enjolras cried, sure he’d definitely broken something precious this time.

“That's okay, Apollo,” Grantaire assured shakily, unmoving, “It’s-”
The screen flickered on and a group of humans in colorful, flouncing clothes danced along to a song playing in the background.
“It’s okay!!!” Grantaire yelled, jumping in releif.
Enjolras breathed out an invisible thanks to the universe, feeling somewhat unsteady and vowing not to touch another thing in this place again for fear of wrecking it.
Then Grantaire was tapping at his shoulder and pointing to the screen.
“Do you know what they’re doing?” he asked.
“They’re dancing, right?”
“Yes! It’s so fascinating, this is my favorite thing to watch.”

Enjolras nodded, watching the humans fling themselves around cheerily as they held hands and grinned at the camera. Their delight was contagious and he found himself smiling along.

A tap on his shoulder, “You’re a wonderful dancer, too.”
Enjolras turned to look at Grantaire, confused, “What do you mean? I don’t dance.”
“Yes you do! I saw you dance near the ship- it was beautiful!” Grantaire protested, slightly frowning.

Enjolras stopped to consider what he might mean, thinking back the past couple days.
Then it hit him.
The couple minutes he took to himself when he first landed on earth- to really run around the endless space offered to him before beginning his mission.
Grantaire had seen that.
Unbidden, artificial blood rushed to his face- and Enjolras was sure he was blushing.

“That’s not dancing! It’s…flying. Were you really following me for that long?!” he demanded, and the other robot nodded, smiling, totally unaware of Enjolras’ embarrassment.

“Yeah- I was chasing a red dot and almost got crushed by the ship. Still, I’m pretty sure that dancing in the air still counts as dancing,” he said, smirking cheekily up at his companion.

“No it doesn’t!” Enjolras sputtered.

“Yes it does!” Grantaire sang, snickering.

“No!?”

“Oh come on then!” Grantaire insisted, bouncing on the balls of his feet in time to the music, humming along as he skipped happy circles around Enjolras. He reached over and grabbed a small trash can lid, using it as a hat and mimicking the dance moves the humans made. It was so silly that Enjolras couldn’t help but smile at Grantaire as he hopped around. This seemed to spur him on though, and he grabbed Enjolras’ arm.

“Come on Apollo, dance with me?” he begged.

“No no, I don’t even know how,” Enjolras protested stubbornly and Grantaire frowned pitifully.

“But you danced before!”

“In the air!”

“Then hover and spin!” Grantaire said, still hopping, “please?”

The plea stopped Enjolras short as he took the dancing robot in, his silly, goofy companion who collected things he knew nothing about and wore garbage lids as hats.
How long had he been wanting someone to dance with? He said this film was his favorite- so it must’ve been quite some time.

Sighing in defeat, he kicked his engines on and floated into the air, doing a lazy twirl.

“Yeah!! Faster?” Grantaire cried, and Enjolras acquiesced.

He spun slowly at first before gaining momentum. Soon- much to the delight and loud cheering of his friend, he was spinning so fast he’d become hardly visible.

Unfortunately, this also meant his balance module had a difficult time keeping in one spot. Barely a split second later he felt a sickening thunk, paired with a shocked cry and a following crash.
He came to a quick stop, eyes flying every which way to see the damage he’d caused. Grantaire, to his dismay, had somehow disappeared.

“Grantaire?” He called, checking behind shelves.

A soft groan behind him answered. Flinging around he stalked over to the other side- but there was no sign of Grantaire there either.

“Grantaire?” he yelled, unsure.

“...Apollo” a moan answered from above, and Enjolras looked up.

Grantaire was stuck. No- not just stuck. He was embedded. In the ceiling.

“Oh shit,” Enjolras breathed, wincing as Grantaire wormed an arm out, pressing against the roof to wedge himself out. A little too successfully, one would say- as he came crashing to the floor only a second later.

Gasping, Enjolras rushed forward to his side. Grantaire seemed to stand up just fine, but when he faced him it became obvious he had shattered his eye piece.

“Oh god, Grantaire I’m-” he started, but Grantaire waved him off.

“No- no, it’s fine,” he huffed, “this kinda thing happens all the time!” he continued, wobbling forwards with the help of the wall, “I just need to reach that shelf over there.”

Once they reached the shelf Grantaire dug around confidently for whatever he was looking for. Curious, Enjolras peered over his shoulder.
All at once he felt quite cold.
This shelf was full to the brim with various robot parts.

Face plates identical to Grantaire’s stared out at him, with hands and feet in a bin next to it, eyes in one and screws in another. Chip pieces and miscellaneous things Enjolras couldn’t even name but could make accurate guesses at were sorted into other countless bins.
Choking, he tapped Grantaire’s shoulder.

“Uh, what…is all this?” he asked shallowly, transfixed on the face plates.

“Huh?” Grantaire asked, turning around. Enjolras struggled not to jump backwards as Grantaire did, for he was expertly unscrewing his left eye mechanism and pulling out damaged wires.

“Where’d you get all these?”

Grantaire popped a new plug in, securing the eye in place; this one being a little more blue and less sun-bleached than the other one.
Slowly- he blinked one eye, then the other, then both together at once; humming with satisfaction.
“I scavenged them from the ones outside after they fell that day. I’m glad I did it quickly because now all the ones I find are rusted out,” he answered, seemingly unbothered.

“Does it bother you? That you have to take them from the others?” Enjolras asked cautiously, watching the others' expression. Grantaire seemed to pause, considering it.

“Not really,” he answered, “it wasn’t really so terrible in the beginning either…” he trailed off.

“Grantaire?” Enjolras asked gently. Grantaire sighed.

“We were all working fine the day that most of us fell- there wasn’t even a storm that day. It was like they cut us all off, or shut us down?” he huffed, rubbing at his new eye, “It was pretty clear that they’d abandoned us, It just sucks that I’m the only one even able to realize it. That's just what humans do, though, I guess.”

Then Grantaire shuffled away, leaving Enjolras rooted to the spot. He gazed over at the shelf of parts and wondered if any of them gained consciousness as they were shut down.
It was rare- but there were records of it happening in older models. It was some type of glitch, but it’d happened before. Maybe Grantaire had circuited out at one point, or been mismanufactured, causing his consciousness.
Either way, it didn’t negate the possibility that one of those face plates might’ve been worn during the demise of another conscious being.

Enjolras had never seen anything like it.
At home, if you needed a piece fixed, you’d go to Cosette or the beauty parlor and they’d have a brand new, unused piece for you. This felt more like graverobbing.
It sickened him to the core, but he knew Grantaire had no other options.
In his day- robots weren’t seen as alive or having feelings. Most of them, as far as Enjolras was aware, didn’t have the ability to process back then. They could feel, but they couldn’t process those feelings.

At home they were seen as equal.
It had taken many centuries, of course, but with time robots had become equal and beloved to humans.
Humans like Cosette, Bossuet, Musichetta, Feuilly, Gavroche, and even little Azelma, had all become friends with robots such as Jehan, Marius, Bahorel, Eponine, Joly, Courfeyrac, Combeferre, and of course himself.

Marriage between humans and robots had even become legal centuries ago, Musichetta and Bossuet marrying Joly were living proof of that. Even Captain Jean Valjean was rumored to be engaged to his robot co-pilot Javert.

Marius had even had his-life timer synced to Cosette’s heartbeat. When she died- he’d go with her. That was his choice.

Enjolras watched Grantaire from the shadows, studying the sad curve of his back as he watched the screen. The light shining on his solemn face made him look even wearier than he usually did. It was as though one gust of wind could dissolve him into nothing.

How would Grantaire adjust to humanity, once Enjolras found a plant? Human life expectancy had increased exponentially- the average human living to about 160 years, but there still wouldn’t be anyone Grantaire could relate to or share his troubles with. Enjolras would be the only one, and he barely understood half of the things his new friend did. He wasn’t even sure if Grantaire could survive on the ship- having been manufactured so many years ago.

He’d come down here for the betterment of humanity and robots alike.
As a group, the Amis de I’ ABC had tried to help the humans, who were relatively physically active but stuck in their screens- unconsciously bound to their same routines.
Bahorel had expressed his frustrations many times- explaining how he’d be physically training with a human during mandatory P.E. and even though they’d be in the room with them- they’d still prefer communicating through holoscreen. The only humans who didn’t use holoscreens were that of the Amis.

They’d all agreed that something had to change, so when Combeferre hacked into the ship's classified mission data and discovered an unissued, wildly outdated mission designed to set humans back to their natural home- they’d all agreed that Enjolras was the best fit to take it.

Enjolras himself had been the biggest pusher for this decision, wanting to do as much as he could to help.
He never could have imagined that there was already life on Earth, a wild, feisty little robot that they’d left behind.

Enjolras groaned quietly. He had no idea how to tell Grantaire about this.
Stepping forwards, he settled down in the spot next to Grantaire and gave him a tenuous smile at the inquisitive glance he got.
Tomorrow, he decided.
Tomorrow he’d tell Grantaire everything, and they’d make a plan together.

They watched the human recording for a long time, and Grantaire couldn’t help but send quick glances at the other’s clasped palms, wondering if Enjolras knew what it was like to hold hands.

Eventually he got distracted by a small ‘lighter’ he’d found the day previous in his compressor, and was even more astonished to find that Enjolras knew how to flick it on.

Warm light from the flame’s glow danced on Enjolras’ face, illuminating his hair- and Grantaire knew he’d finally found something he loved to watch even more than the film in front of him.

Eventually Enjolras insisted that it was time to shut down, but Grantaire scampered off- telling him he had ‘one more thing to show him’.

Bemused, Enjolras stood and waited for Grantaire to return with whatever thing he’d found.

Grantaire retrieved the pl-ant from where he’d placed it in a safe corner and made his way back to Enjolras, extremely careful not to trip over anything or drop it.

Enjolras was watching the screen with an odd expression and fiddling with the lighter when Grantaire arrived, so he gently tapped on his elbow to get his attention.
He turned with a sweet smile on his face and Grantaire held up the ‘pl-ant.’

“What is that?” Enjolras looked at it quizzically, then back at Grantaire, clearly fascinated.

“I think it’s a pl-ant, I don’t know anything else about it though- it’s the only one I’ve found so far,” he said, handing it over and watching as his companion studied it.

“A pl-ant? I can’t recall hearing about it, want me to scan it?” Enjolras asked, gazing down at him, “I might have something in my data?”

Grantaire nodded vigorously and Enjolras chuckled. He held it out in front of him and activated his scanner.

That’s when everything went wrong.

A loud, high series of beeping sounds went off and Enjolras went completely still for a few moments before he began to shake rapidly. The previously blue lights under his skin and eyes went an alarming shade of neon green, casting everything in an eerie glow.

“Enjolras?!” Grantaire cried, terrified, but received no response.

The shaking increased in its intensity and the turbines in Enjolras’ legs kicked on, causing him to hover high over Grantaire, who could only watch in abject horror as a hidden compartment in Enjolras’ chest cavity opened up.
A beam shot out of it- capturing the pl-ant and bringing it into the cavity before closing tightly shut. All at once the jets gave another short burst in time with a terrifying flash of light from Enjolras’ skin. The burst was so powerful that it cut out all lights in the small storage container, leaving the only light being the unsettling green coming from Enjolras’ pupils.

Enjolras, who was slumped to the floor straight-backed and stiff, eyes still open.

Grantaire rushed over, calling loudly and waving his hands in front of his friend’s face. This was nothing like when Enjolras had shut down before, and it terrified him.

“Enjolras?!” he cried, but the only answer was the hum of the green LED lights from Enjolras’ blank eyes.

“Enjolras? “Apollo?”

Nothing.

His nervous jittering became uncontrollable, nearly jarring Grantaire off his feet and he collapsed on the floor in an unsteady heap.

“Did you shut down?! Did I keep you awake too long?!” He asked, reaching out with trembling fingers to brush a lock of golden hair away from where it had fallen into Enjolras’ eyes.

Each passing second made his mounting concern worsen.
Certain it was his fault, he ran around the storage container frantically, searching for anything that might give him a clue as to what had just occurred.

Even after hours of digging through the night and finding nothing suitable, he still couldn’t calm himself.
Eventually, he took to curling up next to Enjolras in the quiet, dark storage room and hoping his friend would be revived tomorrow- that he’d just powered down by accident.

Grantaire peered up at his friend’s still, pale face and decided that when he woke up, he'd apologize for keeping him up so long and be more cautious next time.

With that, he settled in for a long night of worrying.
—-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To Grantaire’s despair, the sun had long since risen and Enjolras showed no signs of improvement.

Unwilling to leave him, he’d moved Enjolras into an old hand-pulled wagon before tugging him up the side to the roof of Grantaire’s home where he could be monitored while Grantaire charged.
Wondering if maybe he needed some sunlight, he struggled to prop Enjolras up and face him towards the sun. After doing so he opened up his own solar panels and sat down to wait.
However, hours passed after Grantaire finished charging and Enjolras still didn’t move.
The green lights in his eyes still faded in and out like they had been- and Grantaire was losing hope.

He paced restlessly on the roof when a loud rumble sounded through the atmosphere, and a glace to his left confirmed an incoming storm.
Usually, this would be a sign for Grantaire to go indoors to avoid the possibility of a short-circuit caused by lightning strike- but an idea popped into his head instead.

Quickly, he hauled up as many ‘umbrellas’ from his collection as he could and tried to balance them against Enjolras, hoping the lightning strike might kick-start his only friend.
The wind seemed to have different opinions though, as it kept moving the umbrella off Enjolras and threatening to blow it into the dusty desert below, making Grantaire chase after it.

Grantaire caught it and stared at the umbrella in his hand, glowering at it.

It was a bad idea. Grantaire knew it was a bad idea- it could even very well fry his circuit and kill him instantly.

Still, it'd been so long since Grantaire had seen or talked to anyone, and Enjolras had only been here for a day- far too new to break so soon.

A memory flashed in his mind, a picture of Enjolras’ soft smile as he was illuminated in the glow of the lighter’s flame. The first face he’d seen in seven hundred years.

He had to try.

Grantaire opened the umbrella and crawled into the wagon, huddling as close as he could to Enjolras’ chest. He then opened the umbrella, held it above them both- and waited.

It didn’t take long for the storm to roll in. Sheets of rain battered the earth, blowing trash every which way and rocking the wagon back and forth.

A flash of bright light stabbed from the sky down at them, and Grantaire’s senses whited out completely.

He estimated he was only out for a few seconds, but it was enough to make his sensor whirr loudly at him.
He checked on Enjolras, hoping that maybe his idea had worked- but nothing had changed- Enjolras remained as unmoving as any other robot Grantaire had known.

A clump of melted plastic dripped down and Grantaire was startled to realize the umbrella had caught on fire.
Stubbornly, he threw that one off the roof, reaching for another and opening it again.

He did this four more times.
When the sixth umbrella had melted and Enjolras remained unchanged, he wheeled his friend inside, determined to try something else.

The next day he wheeled them both back out to the roof, trying the sun method again.
When that failed, he found a pair of charging cables.
Grantaire had found a plug-in port in Enjolras’ left shoulder, so he meticulously pried it open with a spoon, being extremely careful not to damage it. Then, he connected the charging cable to his own circuit wires. When he tried to connect the other end to Enjolras’ port, however, it resulted in a shock so severe it sent Grantaire flying off the roof screaming.

The next day was much the same.
He’d try a new method.
It would fail,
The next day he’d try again.

Eventually, all his options were exhausted.
He’d run out of ideas.

Grantaire desperately hoped his friend would miraculously wake up.
Somehow he knew he wouldn’t.

Grantaire resumed the routine he’d occupied before any of this began, leaving Enjolras carefully propped up in the red wagon on the top of his home, gleaming in the sunlight.
In the morning he’d dust his friend off with a piece of scrap clothing, recharge, then drag himself to the dumpsite to crush and sort away.

The days felt so familiar and so incredibly empty.

Today was such a day.

Grantaire had made his way back to his dumpsite and was slowly scraping away at the garbage on the ground, creating his squares and sorting them away when a faint rumble started in the air.
Bewildered, Grantaire glanced upwards.

“There aren't supposed to be any storms today,” he muttered, standing and dusting himself off. Then a flash of light brought his eyes to the east, where humming filled the air and hovered over a spot in the horizon.

“Oh no,” it dawned on Grantaire, “Enjolras!”

He ran as fast as he could, tripping and stumbling over blocks and bars- slipping down hills of trash, always keeping his eyes on the sky.

The short robot ran faster than he ever had before, keeping his eyes on the sky and feeling an impending dread as a large metal ship started breaking through the atmosphere.
Just as Grantaire neared the docked ship, he spotted the large metal limb from the first time lift from off the ground- holding his dangling friend as it disappeared back into the ship.

“APOLLO!” he screamed, running desperately as the engines began to kick on.

It was hot, so hot that he could hear the dirt on his skin begin sizzling, but he pushed onwards, dragging himself to a small maintenance ladder engraved in the side of the ship and he scrambled up as they slowly lifted off the ground.
The force of the wind and gravity threatened to tear him apart, but he threaded his arms through the ladder up to his elbows and locked them in place, hoping with all his might that they’d hold.

 

The engines burst off, shooting at unimaginable speed through the atmosphere. Grantaire could only sob and hang on for dear life as it dragged on through the clouds and up into the sky. There was one more violent crash as the ship burst through the final trash-filled layer of the atmosphere, then the force subsided with a suspicious, sudden silence.

Gathering his thoroughly frayed nerves, Grantaire peeked his head out and opened his eyes.

It was magnificent.

Countless twinkling stars glittered before him, dotting the sky in a haze of utmost beauty.
There more of them than Grantaire could ever remember seeing- even on the clearest of nights.

No smog or dust clouded his vision as there was no dirt to discolor the sprawling field of blue, purple, and black.
The endless field was open and utterly peaceful.

Grantaire peeked behind him and watched his trash-covered home and planet become smaller and smaller.
He wished Enjolras could see it.

They passed by planets Grantaire had never heard of- some grey and filled with craters, others transparent and seemingly made of red boiling gas.
When they passed by the Sun, Grantaire opened his charging plates, delighted to find that it had fully recharged him in little more than just a second.

The ship took them through the glorious, shining silver rings of Saturn and under a glowing layer of shining mica that Grantaire couldn’t help but run his hand through to watch the twirling trails it left behind.
Glowing swirls of sparkling blue floated behind his fingers in an endless stream- leaving him entirely speechless, unable to do anything but contemplate the universe surrounding him.
He was so mindless that only the thought of his friend alone in that ship gave him the sense to hold on to the railing.

They’d just made it through a glowing shroud of purple clouds when a massive A-class Axiom Starliner came into view.
Impressive beyond all belief, it dwarfed any skyscraper or tower Grantaire had ever seen. Thousands upon thousands of windows shone from the gray, hulking beast and he couldn’t help but feel intimidated as it loomed threateningly closer.

A hatch opened to let the comparatively miniscule ship in, and Grantaire clung to the side.

Unsteadily, the robot knew he looked incredibly out of place. He was a brown rusty stain on a perfectly sterile, white background- save for the large, red BNL logos plastered on the walls- he’d be given away immediately.

Heavy hangar doors closed and gravity was abruptly switched back on- causing Grantaire to be unceremoniously flung from its side and onto the floor. From there he watched as countless machinery poked and prodded at the ship, pulling parts off and unscrewing hinges.
He almost missed it when a large door filled with see-through cylinders wheeled itself past him.
As he glimpsed the cylinders, he was shocked to see Enjolras in one of them, along with similar-looking robots who clearly weren’t active. Enjolras was the only one with open, glowing eyes.

“Enj!” Grantaire called, watching as a mechanical arm snatched his cylinder out of the door and placed it onto a large, hovering stretcher.

A door in the far wall opened then, to reveal another robot with cropped black hair, round cosmetic glasses, a long white coat, with an oddly patterned mis-matched leg. Grantaire could see the word ‘JOLY’ was printed on the back of the robot’s shirt as he stepped forwards and the cylinder opened for access.

Grantaire snuck forwards until he was within earshot of the other robot, who he could see was smiling down at Enjolras in the stretcher.

“Welcome back, leader,” he said as he raised a hand, “let’s get you clean.”

A blue UV light projected from his palm, scanning over Enjolras for a few moments before an alarm went off, signaling its completion. The UV light seemed to activate Grantaire’s sensor, though, and his charger beeped at him- echoing in the large, quiet space.

Joly turned in confusion, and Grantaire ducked away to hide in a ball behind the base of a machine arm.

“What was that?” He heard the voice say as it came closer, the footsteps echoing off the walls.

He knew he wasn’t hidden well enough- and he soon proved to be correct when the robot spotted him almost immediately.

 

“Oh! Hello,” he said, crouching down to see him better, “who are you? I don’t think I’ve seen you before.”
Grantaire rattled nervously and scooted backwards.

“R-07,” he blurted, “I’m not supposed to be here, sorry.”

“Well that’s alright, sweetheart,” said the other with a reassuring smile, “uncharted robots sometimes make their way into strange places. You’re not in any trouble- could you please come out?”

Grantaire wondered if this kind robot thought he was very young or new, since he wasn’t sure what he’d done was actually that harmless.

His job was to stay on earth. His job was to collect trash- on EARTH.
Staying on earth. Was. His. Directive.

“I’m over 700,” he blurted, but obliged the other robot by standing and inching forwards until he was just barely out in the open- visible in all of his 4 ft., rusted glory.

“What do you mean- oh wow, you’re filthy,” Joly whispered, eyes wide as he took in the state of Grantaire.
He gestured at him kindly, “Do you want me to decontaminate you? It’s important you know, it keeps germs out of the ship,” he said, almost visibly itching to follow his own directive and sanitize him.

A loud, grinding whine of gears caught Grantaire’s and Joly’s attention and he spotted a small security robot scan over Enjolras in the stretcher.
It must’ve found what it was looking for- because a loud alarm blared over the speakers and every light in the room turned green. The security robot began to magnetically push the stretcher over to a set of doors.

“No thank you!” Grantaire declined, taking off running after the stretcher.

“Wait!” Joly cried, terribly concerned, but they had already disappeared through the locker. The cleaner stood back, noticing a trail of fine dust on the ground- leading from where the R-07 had been hiding and through the door.
Joly scanned the dust, gaping when it was detected as a Foreign Contaminate.

“But he was covered in it!” He protested, perplexed. A recall image of the little model saying “I’m 700” came to his mind and Joly couldn’t help but think the situation was probably more serious than he’d previously thought.

“Oh Enjolras, what did you do?” he uttered.
Straightening his coat, Joly prepared himself for the long day of cleaning and followed after the trail, hoping he’d catch Combeferre on the way so he could warn him about what he just saw.

 

On the other side of the wall Grantaire was faced with an unfamiliar experience: a busy hallway.
Countless robots, people, and machinery flew by him, all moving shockingly fast without ever bumping into each other.
Grantaire watched in horror as the stretcher, having been separated from him, was wheeled away into the throngs of people glued to their screens. He tried to inch his way forward after them, but only ended up being immediately tripped over- leading to a pileup he could only run away from, weaving and dodging frantically.
The hallway opened up into an even busier crossroad, and it was then that Grantaire noticed that the humans around him were walking not directly on the floor- but on a flat rolling platform which moved to adjust whichever speed they walked at to fit in with everyone else- hence the lack of pile-ups like the one Grantaire just caused.
Hesitantly, he hurried until he managed to jump on a platform of a human who was simply standing, talking to his friend.
Another human fell in line beside the one Grantaire was hitch-hiking on, and Grantaire found himself doing a massive double-take when he realized the two humans were talking to each other through their screens, completely unaware of the other right next to him.

“Humans are so goddamn stupid!” Grantaire exclaimed, dumbfounded.

“What?” they both echoed, seemingly hearing him.

Grantaire quieted, ducking down until they chalked it up to an audio error.

He took in the ship with a careful eye, gaping at the massive holo-ad screens nobody even seemed to notice. The human he was hitchhiking on made his way to the common-city center of the ship, and Grantaire hopped off to get his bearings.
Artificial UV light shown down from a glass ceiling made to imitate a clear blue sky, complete with a BNL logo shaped like a sun. The road he’d been on opened up into a wide open street, lined with tall retail centers advertising “everything you need to make you happy” and was decorated with countless holoscreen advertisements flashing between products and entertainment.

Suddenly a voice sounded beside him.

“Hey, drink bot!” said a tall young man, holding out a cup towards Grantaire in a wordless order without even glancing at him.

The man shook it, leaning further while still not looking, “Here, take the cup.”

Grantaire tried, jumping to try and reach, but the human was too high on his platform.

“Take the-” the human started, suddenly leaning too far and slipping entirely off his platform and onto the ground in a flurry of long black hair and limbs.

Grantaire moved forwards to help him up, muttering an irritated “sorry”.

“It’s fine”, the human griped, finally standing up and taking a dazed look around. Grantaire wondered how long it had been since he actually got a look at his surroundings, since the human seemed shocked to discover the city he’d spent his whole life in.

“Wha-” the human began, only to be interrupted by an announcement from his empty platform.

“Monsieur Montparnasse, please remain calm and idle- a service bot will be along shortly to assist you.”

This seemed to confuse the man as much as it confused Grantaire, but even as the announcement ended they could see a striking robot with lovely ginger hair and an affinity for clashing floral patterns making his merry way towards them through the crowd. Seeing this, Grantaire didn’t feel so bad about hopping quietly onto another platform and speeding away.

He continued like this, hopping from person to machine, then back to person until he managed to jump his way onto the same hover-platform carrying the stretcher Enjolras was in.

Unfortunately, he was being blocked by a rather focused-looking man, who was mouthing words to himself quietly as he studied an endless stream of code on his holoscreen. Grantaire gently tapped on the man’s knee, startled when the man snapped out of it his reverie almost immediately and closed out his holoscreen. Unlike the other, this human didn’t seem nearly as surprised by his surroundings.

“Oh, good morning,” the man greeted, he was another ginger fellow with a smattering of freckles and warm, brown eyes. Just the manner at which the man smiled seemed to set Grantaire at ease.

“Good morning?” Grantaire repeated, confused, as always.
He pointed at Enjolras.

“That’s my friend,” he said, hoping that it made sense to the human.
It seemed to take a minute for the man to get it, looking between the two of them with a mild frown before his expression cleared.

“Your Enj’s friend? Oh sorry, you want to get through!” he exclaimed, backing up as soon as he understood. Gratefully, Grantaire scooted past him until he was standing right beside the stretcher and heaved a sigh of relief.

He gave the man a small nod, “Thank you, I’ve had trouble catching up. It’s too fast here.”

“No problem,” the man uttered quietly, taking the pair in, “hey, I’m Feuilly- also a friend of Enjolras’, I don’t think we’ve met before,” he said, offering a hand.

Grantaire hesitantly took the man’s hand, and after an awkward pause Feuilly shook it for them before pulling back.

“Where are you from? I’m pretty sure Enjolras has never introduced us,” he asked, sparing the cylinder a glance.

“Um, I’m from out there,” Grantaire said, gesturing towards the fake sky as it flew past.

“A different part of the ship?” Feuilly guessed, and Grantaire shook his head.

“From Earth,” he clarified.

They jolted a little as the hover car came to a sudden stop and he was forced to run after the stretcher again as it made its rushed departure.

“Thanks!” he called to Feuilly over his shoulder as he ran off, refusing to lose sight of Enjolras again.

“Bye bud,” Feuilly echoed, watching the robot make his mad dash away from the train.

The stretcher made a sweeping turn into a large, white room equipped with only a large elevator and an extremely bored looking robot.

Grantaire, having been fed up with losing his friend, had taken to dangling off the hovering stretcher by one arm as it floated around.
As such, the robot who was placed in front of a large desk filled with countless buttons- almost missed him as it drove past. Almost.

The robot, whose name could easily be guessed as Combeferre, judging by the name on his own shirt- wore cosmetic glasses and portrayed an air of intelligence; which was decidedly impressive- considering how difficult it is to look smart when viewing something particularly shocking.
Combeferre did indeed look shocked.

Grantaire could recall Enjolras mentioning a Combeferre before and was thrilled to have met another one of his friends.

“Good morning!” He chirped, copying what Feuilly had said and waving as the elevator doors closed.

Combeferre, stunned into stupidity, waved back.

The doors shut tightly and they began their final ascent to the top of the ship.

The elevator opened to a large observation room. There were no chairs or tables, not even any decorations besides a long panel of untouched controls that had been mounted into the wall. Darkness shrouded the room- and this seemed to be purposeful, as a lone figure stared serenely out at the stars.

Grantaire took this chance to run and hide underneath the control shelf, camouflaging himself quite well in the shadows.

Alerted by the security bot, the figure stepped forwards and revealed himself to be a smartly dressed robot in a pressed blue suit. He had been purposely aged to appear around the human age of forty- but it didn’t seem to soften the sharp glint of observation in his eyes.
A badge, gold and engraved revealed him to be First Officer Javert and Grantaire scooted back even further.
Javert tapped out a security code, opening the cylinder and scanning over Enjolras.

An odd thing seemed to occur then, something Grantaire had unfortunately seen before.

Javert jolted and shivered, losing balance slightly. A dismayed, broken shout echoed from the man and a flash of green neon light sparked from his eyes.

Quite similarly to how Enjolras had shut down for good, in fact.

Grantaire began to start forwards, inclined to help- but Javert seemed to regain his footing and regain his impeccable posture.

It took a moment, but when he moved, he was even sharper than before.

Javert turned to the security robot, communicating silently and a hole opened in the floor- leading to a set of stairs. It was just close and wide enough that Grantaire lost his balance, falling through and down them ungracefully.
He didn’t have much time to glance at his surroundings once hitting the bottom, so he ducked under the closest thing, which happened to be a luxurious red velvet chair.
A chair someone was sitting on.

Inwardly, Grantaire was desperately repeating the curse words Enjolras had said- that he didn’t even understand.

Javert called down, tone cool and collected.

“Captain, you are needed on the bridge.”

The person above him sighed heavily.

“Javert, my darling, my stars, my heart- how many times have I told you not to call me that?” a warm, masculine voice called.

Grantaire peeked out from underneath the chair and managed to catch a glimpse of graying brown hair, but then the chair and the captain were moving and he was forced to grab hold of the bottom lest he be dragged away and stuck down there.

They were dragged into an elevator, which then rose back onto the previous floor.
Narrowly avoiding being caught, he managed to switch out from under the chair to under the observation deck control panel, circling around until he was close enough to Enjolras while avoiding attention.

“Captain-” Javert began,

“-Stop that,” The man protested, poking at the buttons on the railing, bringing up statistics of the ship’s controls and levels.

“But-” Javert started, and the captain wheeled around to poke at his co-pilot's chest.

“I’m just following protocol, ok? You love protocol!,” he teased, twinkling blue eyes grinning at his fiancé, “now let me do a status report and then you can tell me everything, hm?”

Javert nodded stonily, stiff as a board, and the captain, now identifiable by a large holo-photo on the wall as Captain Jean Valjean, gave him an odd look and wheeled around.

“Computer!” he called, “Status Report.”
“Yes sir,” a mechanical voice from somewhere in the controls answered.
“Mechanical systems?” he asked
“Unchanged.”
“Reactor core temperature?”
“Unchanged.”
“Passenger count?”
“Unchanged.”
“Regenerative food buffet?”
“Unchanged.”
“Water PH balance?”
“Unchanged.”
“Atmospheric conditions?”
“Unchanged.”
“Laundry service volume?”
“Unchanged.”

“Alright Javert,” the Captain sighed, turning to face him, “what’s going on?”

Javert gestured to a green glowing icon in the corner of the screen, then at Enjolras.

“Captain, Probe One for mission 44031b Operation Recolonize has returned positive,” he informed.

All color drained from Valjean’s face and he stood up quickly, crossing over to peer down at Enjolras, where he considered him.

“Isn’t that Enjolras, Cosette’s friend? We didn’t even send him out, how did he get assigned?”

Javert shook his head, frowning.

The captain sighed, “And it’s positive? You're sure? None of them have ever returned positive.”

Javert didn’t respond, simply crossing over to Enjolras and inputting a code that seemed to jump start not only the cylinder, but Enjolras as well.

Grantaire nearly cried when he saw the neon green lights finally fade from his friend’s eyes as he sat upwards on the cot, swaying.

“Oh god-” he mumbled dizzily, and Captain Valjean darted forward to steady him.

“Easy now, Enjolras, you’ve had quite a journey- it seems. Do you know where you are?” he asked.

Enjolras looked around, taking in his surroundings.

“This is the ship, I’m back home,” he answered, perplexed, “but that doesn’t make any sense- I was just with-”

It all came flooding back.

The lights, the horrid scaly creature, the human recording and dancing, and finally Grantaire’s hopeful face as he offered Enjolras the pl-ant.

“Oh no,” Enjolras breathed.

“Son?” Valjean asked slowly, “are you alright?”

Enjolras took a moment, trying to stop his mind from racing back to earth- back to where his companion was almost certainly beside himself in despair.

He heard someone mutter something and forcefully dragged himself back to the present.

“No,” he gasped, shaking his golden head, “But I can work on fixing things once this is over and done with,” he replied.

He fixed his blazing eyes onto Valjean, “Captain?”
Valjean gave him a concerned look but yielded, walking over to the screen and pushing the green pulsing icon.

In a series of events that gave Grantaire Deja Vu, the observation deck lit itself up green and flared with an unnecessarily loud alarm. Metal shutters came down over the glass and screens, shutting out all light until the only thing one could see was a projected ad of a rather familiar BNL CEO.

Grantaire huffed in annoyance, crawling forwards as the familiar theme began to play.

“Greetings and Congratulations Captain, if you are seeing this it means your mission probe has returned from Earth with a confirmed specimen of ongoing photosynthesis! That’s right! It means it’s time to go back home!
Now that Earth has been restored to a life-sustaining status- we can being Operation Recolonize-”

A slot in the observation control deck shot out a red book labeled Operation Recolonize Manual, and Enjolras handed it over to the captain.

Enjolras groaned, “Oh god, couldn’t they have called it something else?”

Valjean just chuckled.

“Simply follow this manual’s instructions to place the plant in your ship’s holo detector and the Axiom Starship will immediately navigate your return to Earth. It’s that easy!
Now, due to social group isolation, you and your passengers might have some difficulty re-adjusting to life on earth- but I’m sure a few community-building outings at our many social hubs will set you up just fine for life on Earth.”

“What social hubs?” Valjean asked Javert, but received no response.

“If you have any further questions just consult your operation manual. See you back home real soon!” The CEO yelled, smiling and waving at the screen until it folded itself back up again.

“Alright,” Valjean muttered, flipping through the manual, “what does that say? Confirm acquisition?”

“Confirm acquisition”, the computer repeated.

Rows of green lights glared on from the ceiling, leading to a section of the wall that opened out to two large arms.
They reached forwards quickly, roughly grabbing Enjolras and holding him still, much to his surprise.

Grantaire, who had long decided by this point that any mechanical arm was not a friendly one- rushed forwards out of his hiding spot, shooting forwards heavily into Enjolras and furiously smacking the arms away, even managing to break one of them.

“Grantaire?!” Enjolras cried, shocked and reached down to him as though to confirm he was real.

“Intruder!” Javert hissed, stepping forwards and activating a powerful arm weapon similar to Enjolras’ own, aiming at Grantaire, “identify yourself!”

Enjolras shoved Grantaire behind him, holding his arms up, “Wait! Don’t shoot! He’s not dangerous- I found him on Earth, he must’ve followed me back somehow. He’s harmless, I swear!”

Seeing Enjolras’ desperation, Valjean stepped forwards and placed a hand on Javert’s arm.

“Disarm Javert, it’s alright.”

“Captain he is unauthorized personnel-” Javert protested.

“Disarm Javert!” Valjean barked, “that’s an order!”

Javert immediately did so before backing up to his original post- quiet and unmoving.
Valjean stared after him, visibly upset.

“God,” he uttered, “you’re acting like when you were-” he bit himself off, sighing.

“Nevermind, he grunted, turning back to the pair in front of him, “your friend can stay.”

Enjolras breathed out and Grantaire smiled up at the Captain.

“Thank you, I’m sorry for sneaking on without permission.”

Valjean nodded to him before turning to Enjolras.

“Alright, son. Let’s see it.”

Enjolras nodded, adjusting his shirt so they could see his chest plate.

After a moment of adjusting he opened it.

But where the plant should be- there was nothing.

Grantaire let out an alarmed whirr, and Javert frowned, looking back to Enjolras-who was staring down at himself in disbelief.

“Enjolras?”

Enjolras shook his head, “It’s not there- It should be right here!”

“That’s where it last was where you saw it?” Valjean asked patiently.

“Back on Earth! Yes!” Enjolras cried.

Javert suddenly stepped forwards, glaring down at Grantaire.

“Where is it?” he demanded icily, “you must’ve taken it!”

Enjolras once more came to his defense, snatching Grantaire’s hand and pulling him bodily against him, “Grantaire wouldn’t do that, he didn’t even understand the value of the plant before today! He didn’t even know what a plant was OR how to pronounce it! I’ll prove it!” he growled.

He then snatched Grantaire up roughly, showing Javert every which side of him before yanking his shirt up and flinging open Grantaire’s compression compartment, which was predictably empty.

“Hey!” Grantaire yelped, feeling oddly violated.

“Then he must’ve hidden it!” Javert accused mercilessly, growing ever closer.

“Enough!” All eyes turned to the Captain, who seemed roughly four seconds away from a massive stroke.

“Enjolras,” he demanded, “Can you vouch for you and your friend’s innocence- that neither of you know where the plant is or had anything to do with its disappearance?”

The hand on Grantaire’s shoulder tightened.

“Yes,” Enjolras answered, strong and clear.

Javert nodded, “Then we will proceed as normal until further notice. Enjolras, you are relieved from your mission. Go see Cosette and get washed up, I’m sure Joly would have a fit if he saw your friend there.”

“Captain, what about the plant?” Enjolras protested.

Valjean shook his head, “I’ll have bots search the ship, but it might not be aboard. In the meantime- I need to have a discussion with my Co-pilot,” he said, slumping over slightly.

He looked so dejected, sagging slightly in his seat. It unsettled Grantaire, like sand in his gears. He wondered if there were any ideas to cheer him up. Thinking back to earlier, though, Feuilly did seem pretty happy to be shaking his hand.

Grantaire ran forwards, ignoring the quiet “oh shit” from behind him and grabbed Valjean's hand, shaking it lightly with a determined frown.

“I’m not sure what this does but Feuilly seemed measurably happier when I did it,” he informed him.

Though he was obviously tired, a small smile started on the Captain's face.

“Thank you- I appreciate that,” he chuckled warmly, “you should go get cleaned up.”

Valjean gently guided Grantaire back around by his shoulders to where Enjolras was standing with a hand planted over his face.
Wordlessly, he and Grantaire entered the elevator to head back down.

 

The elevator doors had barely closed before Enjolras was pushing a hidden button on his left temple.

“Combeferre? Are you at your post?” he asked, Grantaire giving him a questioning glance.
A crackle went through and a second later another voice came through.

“Nice to have you back Enjolras- and yes I am,” Combeferre answered.

“Great, we’re on our way down. Please send a message to the others to meet at Cosette’s parlor,” he said, staring daggers into the elevator doors.

“We?”

Enjolras groaned quietly, “Yeah, we. I’ve got a lot to explain and not a lot of time to do it, we really need everyone together right now.”

“Roger. I sent a yellow sensor to them and they’ve all responded. We should be arriving there a little after they do.”

 

“Thanks ‘Ferre, we’ll be down soon.”

“Copy that,” the voice said, cutting out.

The silence resumed and Grantaire shifted uncomfortably.

“Apollo,” he started slowly, “I’ve made an error, haven't I?”

Enjolras turned to look at him, really look at him.

Grantaire normally looked awful- but right now he looked downright terrible.
The drastic changes in temperature he’d gone through had taken its toll, chipping off more and more paint from his arms and neck, and his hair curled in tangled, impossible clumps. The humidity in the air made him creak and grind much more than it had in the dry desert, causing him to limp and walk awkwardly.
Maybe it was the weariness or possible dwindling charge, but even his eyes seemed to droop slightly, fogged with dirt.

 

“Yeah,” he choked out, feeling awful, “yeah you did. Grantaire, that was so dangerous, what were you thinking?”

This seemed to irritate Grantaire slightly, and he got a pointed glare from the smaller robot.

“Enjolras,” he started flatly, “You stopped responding and then was dragged off by a massive ship-arm, you know what I was thinking.”

“This is where I came from!” he exclaimed, rubbing his forehead.

Grantaire gritted his teeth, “Humans have a history of being awful to us, Apollo, even in my age. I couldn’t take that chance,” he snapped.

“Why not?! My chances were good, but you could’ve been killed!”

They glared at each other for a moment, waiting for Grantaire’s response. Instead, though, Grantaire only shut his lips tight with an audible ‘click’ and stared stubbornly at the wall- refusing to answer.

“Grantaire?” Enjolras asked, but he didn’t move an inch.

Even the air became heavy, weighing him down.

“R,” he sighed, “I’m sorry that I scared you and didn’t explain it earlier; I meant to- I did, but you have to go back as soon as possible-”

“Why?!” Grantaire suddenly burst out, turning to face him. He was so frustrated his gears hand started to overheat and whine in protest, “Why can’t I stay and help?”

“Because you’re over seven-hundred years old, Grantaire! None of the UV lights we have here are strong enough to charge you, and the parts you need aren’t manufactured anymore, there’s nothing for you here!”

“There’s nothing for me there either!”

“But you’d be alive- and you’d have your human trinkets-”

Grantaire screamed in frustration, throwing his hands in the air, “That’s not better, Enjolras!”

“Well you can’t just stay here until your battery runs out-”

“Why not?!” he cried.

“Because, that’s! Horrid! You can’t-” he broke off with an angry growl and pinched the bridge of his nose.

Tension simmered in the air between them and literal heat waves floated off Grantaire's shoulders.
Enjolras found himself speechless, struggling to come up with a suitable answer to say.

Grantaire stepped closer.

“Why not?” he asked, quiet as he watched Enjolras, who shuddered under his gaze.

“I won’t let you,” Enjolras vowed, trying to tear his eyes away from the upset, pinched expression on Grantaire’s face.

Grantaire opened his mouth to say something else- but the doors to the elevator started opening and Enjolras gratefully made his escape.

Combeferre, the secretary from before, was waiting at the doors. If he noticed the terrible mood radiating off the two of them, he didn’t mention it.

“We’d better hurry, everyone arrived back faster than I anticipated,” he informed them.

Enjolras nodded and Combeferre gave Grantaire a welcoming nod.

“Good afternoon, I’m Combeferre, pleased to officially meet you,” he said to Grantaire, who had returned to his quiet observing.

“Ah, hello- I’m Grantaire, also pleased to meet you,” he muttered, and Combeferre was gracious enough to let it stay at that.

 

Moving through the hallways and corridors came much easier now that Grantaire was with two people who knew what they were doing. I almost irritated him to see how efficiently such an unintelligent system could run when operated by desensitized humans.

He watched as the ads and people flew by, pondering his fate and imagining the empty storage container and all his trinkets waiting for him. The image made him shudder, earning a concerned glance from Combeferre.
He still loved his things, of course. The oddities and his funny human music still held a special place in his heart- just for different reasons than before.

He peeked up at Enjolras and tried to set what he saw into memory. The graceful, lithe lines of his face, the ethereal shine of his golden head, and the determined set of his brows; every detail of his fingernails and eyelashes was dearly important to him.

Even if Enjolras promised to visit, or find another plant- there was nothing that could guarantee that he actually would, or that Grantaire would even last long enough to see him again.

After all, when R-07s fall, they fall quickly.

Still- Grantaire knew himself better than anyone else.
He knew that no matter how much he fought himself, if Enjolras asked him to go back, he’d do it in a heartbeat.
Because it was Enjolras who asked.

In a way, Grantaire even understood Enjolras’ decision. If their positions were reversed Grantaire would drag Enjolras back to Earth kicking and screaming if it meant he’d survive- so he understood in a way; but Enjolras was as necessary to this universe as the stars and sky themselves…and Grantaire had been here for 700 long, isolating years.
It hardly seemed like an equal comparison.

 

A feather-light tap from Combeferre alerted him of their arrival and they all bustled off the train quickly.
The store they’d been taken to somehow managed to maintain a cozy, soft aesthetic while still being made of white, plastic lines and large glass windows.
They bustled past the large chairs of robots getting shined, polished, or fixed in some way or another, instead slipping behind a curtain and into a warmly lit room devoid of any furniture but absolutely covered in pillows. Even the floor itself lacked the cold tile of the ship, making it suitable for the many, many robots and people snuggled onto it.

A familiar spark of curiosity sparked in Grantaire’s heart and he automatically turned to tug on Enjolras’ arm, momentarily forgetting that they’d been short with each other just a few moments ago.

“Why is the floor furry?” he asked sheepishly, relieved when Enjolras only gave him a mild smile.

“It’s called carpet, a woven material that used to be very popular with humans. This is the last area of the ship that has it, Cosette saved it from being torn up,” he replied while subtly guiding Grantaire forwards until he was standing on it.

It seemed he also wished to hang on to the time they had left together while on good terms.

Combeferre watched this exchange with a keen eye, surprised and pleased.
He, Enjolras, and Courfeyrac had been friends since they’d been made, and while Enjolras had plenty of friends besides them- he’d never shown an inkling of any deeper interests for anyone else until now.
Watching the way his friend passed worried glances and snuck brief touches towards this new robot made it hard to suppress his smile.

The door clicked behind them, attracting the attention of all the occupants in the room.
In a flash there was a mini stampede of people running at Enjolras with bright grins and exclamations of relief at his safe return.
Grantaire, for his part, hadn’t ever witnessed an actual stampede, but it took him roughly 0.2 seconds to realize that he absolutely hated it.
A loud, jarring whine of wheels and gears shrieked as he turned on his heel and bolted to hide behind a startled Combeferre.

The noise attracted even more people, giving Enjolras a chance to escape the enthusiastic clutches of a very large, burly fighting robot only to be pounced on by a set of small human children.

A kind, familiar voice called out a relieved, “Oh it's you!” and Grantaire peeked out from behind the secretary to meet the eyes of Joly.

More and more eyes turned to where Joly was looking at and a wave of hushed murmurs started up.

Grantaire winced, remembering their earlier meeting, “Hello, good morning,”

“Afternoon,” Enjolras gently corrected, worming his way around to Grantaire and once again guiding him forwards with a soft but insistent stride, patiently ignoring the way Grantaire gripped his shirt in obvious terror,

“Everyone,” he began, “This is Grantaire-”

A high-pitched excited squeak from a curly raven-haired robot interrupted him, a large, twinkling grin spreading over his face.

“My god Enj! Did you get a boyfriend!?”

Enjolras turned an alarming shade of pink while Grantaire squinted at him, perplexed.

“Courf!” Enjolras snapped shortly over the other’s giggles. Grantaire stepped forwards, shaking his head.

“I’m an AI, not a boy, and I’m over 700 years old,” he complained, “is it because I’m short? Because all R-07s were made this size…except for the ninth version,” he trailed off, seeing the varying expressions of shock and confusion, “they were…giants…”

He turned to Enjolras, who was staring determinedly at the ceiling.

“I’ve misinterpreted him,” he declared, and Enjolras nodded slightly.

“Please explain?”

Enjolras said nothing but glared slightly at Courfeyrac, who was focusing very hard on embodying the phrase “fly on the wall”.

“I’ll explain it later,” he promised- fully intending on doing so as vaguely as possible.

Just then, a petite lady with curly blond hair entered the room, freezing in her tracks when she spotted Grantaire.

“Oh my god,” she breathed, taking him in with an expert eye. She then turned to Enjolras,

“This model- is he?”

“From Earth,” Enjolras confirmed, grateful to finally get a word in, “And entirely cognizant.”

Cosette nodded, excitedly waving the room back towards the pillows,

“Tell me everything,” she said, everyone taking her lead and squishing themselves back towards the pillows.

Grantaire ended up on a large, pink velvet pillow- being slightly squashed against Enjolras. Combeferre and Courfeyrac took their respective seats on the other side of Enjolras, sharing knowing glances all the while.
Feuilly was seated on Grantaire’s right and he was comforted by the sight of the ginger, privately suspecting he was the only normal one of the group. Besides Enjolras and Combeferre, obviously.

Brief introductions were made and Grantaire became more relaxed as Enjolras recounted the tale to the merry group.

Grantaire especially liked little Azelma and Gavroche. They were so full of innocence and life as they asked Enjolras about all the dangers of earth and gave loud exclamations at Grantaire’s recount of clinging to the spaceship through the takeoff, it almost distracted him from Enjolras’ sudden rigid posture at his side. Almost.

Sweet Jehan was another of Grantaire’s favorites. Though he’d only met Grantaire a few minutes ago, he seemed so genuinely devastated when hearing about the long centuries of quiet desolation.

Even so, Grantaire had been running on for so long that it was almost too easy to fall asleep when he did. One moment he was pondering the carpet and the meaning of the word “boyfriend” as Enjolras spoke in the background, and the next a soft, brief beep was alerting them to his brief sleep reprieve as he slumped against Enjolras’ shoulder.

“That’s normal, right?” Joly asked Enjolras.

“I think so, I remember him mentioning that it saves battery to sleep at night- but that it isn’t necessary?”

“He doesn’t need to sleep?” Azelma asked, eyes wide, “Cool!”

Eponine, a fierce service bot who had somewhat adopted the kids, turned to consider Grantaire before turning to Enjolras with a solemn look.

“How long does he got?” she asked.

Courfeyrac frowned, “What do you mean? Is there something wrong with him?”

Cosette gave a thoughtful hum, glancing at the light, “She means his power charge, Courf’. He’s a UV robot- he can’t stay here or he’ll run out of battery, and he isn’t the kind that can restart again afterwards.”

Courfeyrac grimace, glancing between his golden friend and the sleeping R-07.

“We don’t have anything that can help him?”

Enjolras shook his head, peering down at his companion.

“No,” he answered softly, “He’ll have to go back soon.”

“Back to Earth?” Bossuet said, a bald human with an affinity for terrible luck, “but it’s so awful down there, he’d be completely alone again.”

“Only until I find the plant, or find another,” Enjolras said, tightening his fists.

“Enj,” Musichetta stepped in, “that could take forever, what if he doesn’t make it that long?”

“He won’t make it for long up here!” Enjolras huffed, rubbing at his face, “what choice do we have?!”

Combeferre laid a knowing hand on his shoulder, sending him a supporting glance.
“Enjolras is right, we need to move fast while getting Grantaire to safety as well. Plants don’t just disappear into thin air- I think someone took it,” he declared.

“You do?!” Marius exclaimed from next to Cosette “God, who? Why would anyone do that?”

“Actually...” Cosette started, “I think It might’ve been Dad.”

“The Captain?”

“No no,” she started, “Not Papa, Dad-Javert? The way he’s acting sounds just like when he was a security bot- you know? When he was going after Papa because of that fake criminal sentencing? The security robots had an autopilot setting which made their behavior aggressive and erratic. It was made to counter rioters but they removed it because it was unsafe for the public- but Dad was already chosen by Papa to be co-pilot, so wasn’t removed, just disabled for extra security. If his system’s connected to the ships-”

“-It could go to autopilot when a specific order connected to a mission is engaged!” Enjolras finished.

“Wait a second though, we have to be sure about this before going to Valjean,” Combeferre said.

“Actually,” Grantaire mumbled, having just woken up, “I think I saw it switch on.”

Enjolras frowned, “What? When?”

“Right before they woke you up. He scanned you over then he started shaking and flashing green- like you did before you shut down- not as severely though.”

“What? I don’t remember that.”

Grantaire sniffed, “Good. It wasn’t nice to see- and I don’t think it was nice to experience.”

Enjolras considered this as the others talked amongst themselves about setting up patrol routes and search parties for the plant.
He reached down and took Grantaire’s hand in his own, threading their fingers together and running the pad of his thumb up and down Grantaire’s fingers, barely hearing the hitch in his friend’s gears.

“I really am sorry, Grantaire,” he murmured, resting his head lightly on top of the others,
“I was planning on telling you everything the next morning, I swear I was.”

It took a minute for Grantaire to register this- mostly because he was busy staring holes in their joined hands, his fans working full time to calm him down.

“It’s fine,” he squeaked, “I believe you- plus, neither of us could’ve known about the plant in the first place. You only figured out I could speak earlier that day anyway.”

“Still,” Enjolras continued, completely oblivious to his giddy state, “I wish I’d told you as soon as I knew what you were.”

Grantaire took a chance and squeezed his hand, ecstatic when he received a squeeze back.

In that moment Grantaire truly understood why humans held hands. He’d never felt so full in his entire existence.

“W-ow,” he whispered to himself.

Beside them, Courfeyrac and Combeferre shared a pleased, knowing grin.

Oddly enough, It was Enjolras who hesitated at the escape pod doors.

They’d made their way there after saying their goodbyes, the others going to search for the plant.
Grantaire couldn’t recall ever seeing Enjolras walk slower than he did on the way there- and it comforted him a little to know that this was just as miserable for him as it was for Grantaire.

The room was dark and cold, but it only took a second to reboot and Grantaire meandered his way inside, looking around while Enjolras set a course for Earth.
Grantaire trailed his hand along the red, plastic seats and seatbelts- peered down at the control panel until he noticed Enjolras had stopped clicking away.

He turned around to say something- anything, and was suddenly enveloped in Enjolras’ arms, squeezing tightly.

“We’re going to find it,” Enjolras uttered into his shoulder, “I swear.”

Grantaire nodded, unable to speak.

“If it’s truly gone I’ll reassign myself, or jump in a pod and go down anyway, just-”

He stepped back, meeting Grantaire eye to eye.

“-I’m gonna find you again,” he promised.

“Earth is big,” Grantaire choked out.

“Not big enough to stop me,”

And god, Grantaire could tell he meant it.
His blue eyes had never burned brighter or his hands shaken more.

“Okay,” he breathed, giving him a wobbly smile.

Enjolras returned it, giving him one last crushing embrace before stepping back to the control panel.

“Alright, R, you ready?”

Grantaire nodded,

“Okay, 3…2..”

 

Just as it always seems to- life has precise timing.

Chimes filled the room, indicating someone entering the room. Paired with this was the familiar code beeping of a security bot.

Enjolras signaled him as he frantically disabled the pod.

“Hide!” he hissed, and Grantaire dove beneath a small table in the corner of the pod.

The room returned to black just in time for the bot to enter, but instead of passing by them, it entered into the pod- beeping closer until it was only two feet away from where Grantaire was hiding.

Then, to his amazement- the bot opened up to reveal the stolen plant.

It lifted it up and onto the table before going to the control panel and typing something in.
When it was finished it exited the pod, returned to the elevator, and left.

Grantaire crawled out of his hiding spot and over to the plant, lifting it up and checking to make sure it was okay.

“Enjolras! Look- it’s the pl-”

“-GRANTAIRE!”

He was abruptly thrown off his feet and into the wall, clutching the plant protectively. In a daze, he placed it in his chest compartment securely before trying to stand up, finding it difficult as the speed of the pod was too fast to catch his balance.

Stars sped past him out the window, and a mechanical voice was saying something he couldn’t catch as the pod grew faster and faster.

Enjolras, having ejected himself through the maintenance portal, sped after the pod as fast he could manage.

“Twenty seconds till self-destruct,” the computer uttered from the inside, and Grantaire gasped.

He crawled along the floor until he had reached the control deck, pushing frantically at every button he thought would help- but most had been disabled.
Parachutes, missiles, even a floating device all was enabled with each button press, but nothing seemed to stop the alarm.

“Ten seconds till self-destruct.”

“Oh fuck,” he whimpered, mindlessly repeating something he’d heard Eponine say earlier.

It didn’t seem to help much.

Looking around frantically, he spotted an emergency exit handle, and he rushed to open it. Despite all his efforts, it was too large and heavy to open. To his left was a fire extinguisher, and he snatched it- slamming it with all his might against the wall to no avail.

Nothing was working.

“Fuck!” he cried.

 

Enjolras was only a couple seconds away when the pod exploded.

A sharp flash- then a shockwave blew through him, slamming hard and pushing him back unsteadily.

 

Everything froze.

 

He was still alive, operating even, but he couldn’t tell.
Sightless eyes blinked, but saw nothing.
Though his ears worked fine, everything was completely silent.

Data ceased to register and for a few seconds he wasn’t sure if he was alive anymore.

His mind shorted out completely- only able to focus on the spinning chunks of metal and sparking wire as it spread out in a sweeping, ruinous firework.

He was moving without thinking.

Burning rockets blast him through the icy stretch of black space, and he didn’t realize he was screaming.

His words couldn’t pass through space, but it didn’t seem to matter. He wasn’t even sure what he was saying- only desperately trying to get closer.

To be sure.

He neared the wreckage- nowhere near prepared to accept what had just happened, when the speeding projectile of an extremely terrified R-07 shot by him.

It hadn’t even been a full second after he flashed by but Enjolras was turning at full speed to desperately confirm what he’d glimpsed.

He could see him now, Grantaire, mouth open in a soundless scream and eyes wide in terror as he clung with all his might to an activated fire extinguisher, leaving behind a trail of foam to linger in space forever.

It was the most comforting thing Enjolras had ever seen. He didn’t wait for Grantaire to try and slow down- oh no.

He tackled him.

Speeding forward, he snatched him out of thin air and dove back to the pod bay where they collapsed in a tangled heap on the floor.

 

“Grantaire!” Enjolras cried, synthetic tears streaming down his face as he laid bent over the other, clutching him to his chest and shaking wildly.

Grantaire, for his part, wasn’t doing much better. He didn’t have the ability to cry, but he was shivering so bad his bolts threatened to break. He whistled and whined, clinging to Enjolras unashamedly.

“Dear god- are you okay?” Enjolras sobbed, leaning back to run visual diagnostics over the other.

Grantaire nodded, slowly sitting up with the help of the other and leaning against Enjolras’ chest.

“I’m f-fine, I’m okay- I'm fine,” he sniffed, sending a glance over at where the fire extinguisher lay smashed on the ground, “I can’t believe it, I swore I’d never touch one of those things ever again! It just saved my life!”

They giggled hysterically to themselves, holding onto one another until their rapid shaking had lessened somewhat.

The calm quiet of the room helped ground them, reminding them of their continuing existence, that they’d survived another day.
Slowly, they regained their senses and cooled down, until the only sounds in the room were that of the operating robots.

After a while the pieces fit into place.

“Well- I guess we know what happened to the plant,” Enjolras tacked on half-heartedly, and Grantaire shot up, suddenly reminded.
“Fuck!” he barked, starting to open his chest compressor.

Enjolras snorted, “Do you even know what that means?”

“Enjolras, look!” Grantaire declared, pulling the slightly worse for wear plant out and holding it up to him.

Enjolras stared at it in disbelief, then at Grantaire.

Suddenly he was being lifted up into the air, Enjolras bringing them both up to the ceiling and twirling them around.

“Grantaire! You brilliant man!”

“Robot,” he corrected.

Enjolras gave him a blinding, glorious smile, threading a hand through his hair before bringing their lips together and kissing him deeply.

Elated and dizzy, Grantaire kissed back with enthusiasm. Though he wasn’t sure how, he tried to match Enjolras’ rhythm and not ruin it by short-circuiting.

If Enjolras noticed his inexperience he didn’t show it, only going slower and more deliberate to stretch the moment further.
He gently nipped at Grantaire’s lips and brushed an adoring hand over his cheekbone, placing open-mouthed kisses on Grantaire’s jaw when his head tilted back drunkenly.

Grantaire couldn’t help the whine that whistled out of him when Enjolras pulled back, eliciting a melodic, pleased laugh from the other.

“Grantaire?” Enjolras murmured.

“Mm-hm?”

“Will you be my boyfriend?” Enjolras asked, looking up at him through feathery lashes. Grantaire snorted, unable to help himself.

“Yes,” he answered, punctuating it with another sweet, lingering kiss to Enjolras’ smooth red lips, “Even though I still don’t know what that is.”

Enjolras leaned his forehead against Grantaire’s with a content sigh.

“I’ll tell you on the way to the Captain's quarters.”

“Does that mean you have to put me down?”

Enjolras chuckled, “Do you want me to?”

“No,” Grantaire smirked jokingly.

“You might get mistaken for a kid. You really hate that- I can tell.”

Grantaire shrugged, smiling, “Right now I don’t really care.”

“Alright.”

“Enjolras?”

“Yeah?”

“What does fuck mean?”
—---------------------------------------------------------------

“We’ll need to be careful and find a way to keep Javert out of the room.”

“I could stay by the door and warn you if he arrives?” Grantaire glimpsed up at Enjolras, who was busy staring daggers into the elevator doors. He glanced at Grantaire, eyebrows pinched.

“Alright, but if you see him-”

“Scream loudly,” Grantaire finished.

“Very funny,” Enjolras huffed, “Warn us and we’ll hide the plant.”

The elevator opened and they stepped out in front of the door, Grantaire staying behind.

Enjolras entered the captain’s quarters, taking a brief glance around. To his relief Javert was nowhere to be seen and Valjean was in his red chair, gazing at a screen full of information about earth.

“Captain,” Enjolras saluted when Valjean turned to greet him.

“Enjolras,” Valjean smiled, “have you settled back in?”

“I’m fine, thank you- but I have important information. It’s important that Javert doesn’t hear this, though.”

Valjean frowned, but didn’t seem surprised, “With his earlier reaction to your friend, I’m inclined to agree. It’s alright, I’ll inform him afterwards.”

“Actually, Captain- Cosette has suggested that he might be on autopilot- apparently the code for first officers can be activated if any previous orders from other captains were downloaded to the ship,” he said cautiously, watching for his reaction.

“Oh god,” Javert groaned, slack-jawed, “I knew something about him was off, I’d hoped he was just being cautious but this makes so much more sense- but who would’ve ordered a cease of Operation Recolonize? We'd finally get to go home…” he muttered, a wistful expression crossing his face as he glimpsed the screen.

“About that-” Enjolras said, bringing the plant out of his chest and presenting it to Valjean.

Valjean held it delicately in his hands, warm blue eyes shining with awe. He looked between the screen filled with old Earth pictures and the tiny sprout.

“You found it!? Where?”

Enjolras grimaced, “We were trying to get Grantaire back to a pod- to earth, since he’s a UV bot and needs to recharge, but we were interrupted by Javert’s security bot. It put the plant in, activated the pod and set it to self-destruct. It was close, but Grantaire saved it.”

“Your boyfriend?” Valjean asked with a pleased, mischievous squint. Enjolras scowled, feeling his ears burn, but he couldn’t ignore a question from the captain.

“...Yes.”

Valjean chuckled cheekily, “Sorry son, I’m just teasing. You remind me of Javert sometimes. I’ll have to give my personal thanks to Grantaire once we land.”

He held the plant up, which had wilted somewhat.

“Is there something wrong with it?” Enjolras asked, gently brushing one of the leaves. The slight tremble of the movement caused a different one to detach- fluttering softly to the ground.

Valjean walked with him to a button on the wall, which he pressed- flinging out a water fountain to water the plant with.

“I’ve been doing some studying,” Valjean said, noticing Enjolras’ impressed expression gesturing to the screen of information of Earth.

“Would you like to see my surveillance footage? Earth doesn’t look anything like it used to,” he warned, “but it’s a start.”

“Please”, Valjean gestured to another chair, which he gratefully took. He then dimmed the room so they could begin.

The video started out with the rocket leaving earth, quickly glimpsing over the endless stretches of desert and towers of trash shrouded in smog and then of him shooting at the BNL ad.
Out of the corner of his eye he could see the captain smile in approval.

It then switched over to Grantaire from where he peeked out from behind some trash- then to the robot’s home as he handed Enjolras trinket after trinket and blasting music through the screen on the recording.

“Hey!” Valjean exclaimed, “I know this song, they’re….oh what’s it called,” he muttered, wheeling away over to his board to search for the word.

A momentary recording of Grantaire offering up the plant played, his hopeful eyes beaming at Enjolras from the screen.

Guilt tugged at his chest as he watched blackness flash across the screen, displaying a Security Activation System title.

Immediately it was activated and Grantaire’s terrified face filled the screen from a shot clearly taken on the floor. Enjolras nauseously recalled Grantaire mentioning that he’d been shaking.

“Enj?” The Grantaire on the screen whined, “Apollo?”

Enjolras winced, feeling the fear permeate through the screen in just that word alone.

“Did you shut down?! Did I keep you awake too long?”

 

God, he looked so scared- just like he had earlier when he’d been an inch away from death.

The next alert opened up to a background of rolling desert planes. It seemed he’d been propped against something. Grantaire was in the corner of the screen, charging and glancing at Enjolras hopefully.

Another cut.

Lightning flashed brightly and Enjolras jumped slightly, shocked to see an arm holding an umbrella in the very corner of his vision get hit by lightning. It set the plastic ablaze, throwing melted plastic globs everywhere. Once again, Grantaire’s face peeked at him hopefully, only to fall and disappear from frame again. Another umbrella was raised- this one being struck too.
With each of Grantaire’s attempts he could feel himself growing gradually more and more upset. Each scene was a knife in his throat, especially the ones where Grantaire was harmed in one way or another. All Enjolras wanted to do was run to the door- to where Grantaire was, but his feet seemed leaded to the floor.

The last clip ended with Grantaire dusting him off, the sadness in his slumped figure so tangible Enjolras had to bite his lip to stop it from trembling.

He turned the screen off, wiping at his eyes and trying to compose himself.

A warm hand landed on his shoulder, turning him around.

“Enjolras, are you alright?” Valjean asked, his lined face pinched with worry.

“I am functional,” he repeated humorlessly, thinking of Grantaire just outside the door.

He drew himself upward, eager to return to him , “Your orders, Captain?”

Valjean opened his mouth to speak- but was interrupted by the door flying open to reveal a frazzled Grantaire.

“He’s coming up!” he warned.

Valjean turned to Enjolras, thrusting the plant towards him.

“Hide it, I’ll tell him I called you here on further interest in earth.” he ordered.

Enjolras did so just in time for the doors to open as a stiff-shouldered Javert walked in.

“Captain, I wasn’t aware you had guests in your quarters. Please inform me next time for suitable security,” he muttered, surveying the room coldly.

“Javert-”

Valjean was interrupted by a swift change in Javert’s eyes, a subtle but visible flash of green paired with slight shaking- and all the air left his lungs. The truth was out for all to see.

His co-pilot then stooped to retrieve something on the ground. Standing, he held out the object- a wilted green leaf.

Javert turned sharply to Enjolras, holding out a perfectly still hand.

“Give me the plant,” he ordered, and Valjean stood- drawing himself up to his full height to tower over him.

He shook his head, “Absolutely not, I don’t know what orders you’ve received, but we’re going home.”

“Captain, I must insist you give me the plant.”

“Javert, enough.”

Another wave of shaking rattled its way through Javert.

“We cannot go home,” he insisted.

Grantaire growled, “Why?”

“That is classified-”

Valjean stilled, rage practically seeping out of his form.

“I’m the Captain, Javert. I outrank you. This is an order- tell me what is classified immediately.”

Silence sunk into the air, Javert processing the command before stepping back.

“Understood.”

A familiar theme song began to play on the wall next to them and Grantaire groaned, already expecting the stupid face when it popped up on screen.

“Just cut it off, will ya?!” the CEO of BNL snapped to someone off camera. For once he didn’t seem pleased or put together- instead grimacing at the camera over a gas mask strapped to his neck over wild hair.

“Hey there autopilots, got some bad news. Um…Operation Cleanup has, uh, failed. Wouldn’t you know it- rising toxicity levels have made life unsustainable on Earth.”

“Unsustainable?” Valjean muttered crossly, “that can’t be right.”

“Darn it all- we’re going to have to cancel Operation Recolonize,” the CEO said, glancing repeatedly offscreen nervously.

“So just stay the course- uh. Rather than trying to fix this problem- it’ll just be easier and safer for everyone to remain in space.”

A voice called for the president off screen, urging him to hurry and declaring time to leave.

“Okay- I’m giving Override Directive A113. Go to full autopilot- take control of everything and do not return to Earth. I repeat- do not return to earth.” He parroted, pushing the gas mask over his face as an alarm began to blare in the background.
Another frazzled voice crackled in the background.

“Sir, what do you want us to do with the R-07s? Should we keep them running?”

“No, that’s pointless- god, just shut them down and get to the starliner and let’s get the hell out of here,” he snapped.

The recording went to the BNL logo and Javert stepped in front of the group.

“You’ve been informed, Captain. Now give me the plant,” he demanded.
Valjean wasn’t having it, though.

“No,” he glared, “Wait a minute. Computer, when was that message sent out to the Axiom?”

“Message received in the year 2110,” It answered.

Grantaire sighed, “Seven hundred years ago, I knew it.”

Valjean nodded, “Things have changed- life is sustainable now, we’ve got to go back! It’s our responsibility!”

Javert remained unchanged.

“Sir, orders are ‘do not return to Earth’. The plant is irrelevant, Captain.”

“Like hell it is!’

“I must follow my directive.” Javert repeated.

“You will follow my orders, Javert,” Valjean growled, “and my orders are to return the Axiom to Earth. Today.”

Javert’s eyes flashed from green to red and an alarm was tripped. To the side of them, the same security bot from before shot out of a tube in the wall.
It skimmed quickly over the floor to Enjolras, entrapping him in a red parel-beam.

Enjolras struggled but even he was powerless and the bot entered in his chest locking code- taking the plant out by force as Javert restrained the captain.

“Javert! This is mutiny!” he shouted.

“I am following orders, Captain.”

The bot then wound the beam holding the plant back before throwing it towards a large garbage bin that led directly to the Waste Ejector.
It was barely snatched out of the air by Grantaire.

Seeing this- Javert incapacitated the captain with an electric shock then moved in pursuit of Grantaire.

Enjolras watched from the beam in horror as a struggle ensued between the two, Grantaire being snatched up and flung around like a ragdoll in an attempt to grab the plant.

Grantaire kicked Javert away, frantically shoving the plant into his own chest cavity and backing up until he was right in front of the garbage disposal with nowhere to run.
He hunched over his chest protectively as Javert drew closer.

Instead of grabbing him, however, Javert activated a powerful taser charge in his hand and slammed his palm against Grantaire’s neck circuit.

Seizing and choking out pained cries, Grantaire could only lean against the disposal as sparks continuously fried his gears and chips by draining all of his charge altogether in the span of a few tortuous seconds.

Enjolras let out a guttural scream, writhing against the paralyzer as he watched Javert viciously pull back before kicking Grantaire back into the garbage disposal- falling and disappearing from view.

He then received a shock of his own- forcing him limp. He hardly understood what was happening as he too was crammed into the disposal.

He plummeted down, barely managing to start back up in time to catch the light of the end growing nearer.

He scrabbled at his neck, pressing his call button,

“Mayday- Mayday! Does anyone copy?” he screamed as he clipped the wall of the tunnel with his shoulder.

A flurry of voices answered immediately as he blasted out of the large expanse, spinning uncontrollably into a large pile of trash- stunning him for a moment.

“We copy, where are you?” Combeferre’s voice asked.

He struggled out of the mess, looking around frantically.

“The airlock- I think. It’ll be opening soon and I can’t see Grantaire anywhere. Grantaire?!” he screamed, voice bouncing off of the dark metal walls.

“I’m closest and on my way!” Joly said, cutting out.

“Enjolras what happened?” Eponine asked, clearly ready for a fight.

A gust of wind blew over him, warning him of something incredibly large speeding closer- so he took off into the air, just barely being missed by a colossal metal hand.

From a sky view it looked like something out of those horror plays Jehan liked to write.

Two ancient giant, unpainted R-07s were scraping at the ground, piling trash into themselves before crushing it down in a symphony of ear splitting screeching metal. Bright lights shown from their eyes, creating streams of brilliant light for the slow- hulking creatures to move by.

Combeferre crackled out, “Enjolras do you copy?”

Enjolras resumed his frantic searching as he answered.

“We were right. Javert’s on autopilot- he’s knocked out the Captain and has taken control of the Axiom,” he choked out, “Grantaire’s been fried- his charge was drained by a taser and I can’t fucking FIND HIM.”

Another horrible crunch sounded from below him and his eyes unwillingly darted to the resulting cube where he could see a limp arm sticking out of the wreckage as it moved on a conveyor belt into the airlock.

He panicked, blasting towards it and pulling at the arm, struggling to pull him out in one piece.

“The airlock is closing,” the PA system called and Enjolras cast a glance behind them to see only three feet left between the closing doors.

They weren’t going to make it.

But that was when Joly made his grand entrance- stubbornly shoving himself between the doors with a metal filing cabinet box in one hand and a ratty rope in the other.
In the few seconds he had left, he used one hand to thrust the box between the doors so he could stand on it, bracing himself against the hangar while throwing the rope to Enjolras.

Grantaire finally came free not a second too soon and Enjolras snatched the rope, twisting it around his wrist several times.

He hung on as tightly as he could when the airlock opened.
It sucked the towering blocks of trash away like they were dust in a vacuum, but Enjolras still held firm as the suction tore at their bodies and the rope.
Joly was jolted around as well but stubbornly held on, leaning back to counteract the wind.

Then something blessedly peculiar happened.

Both R-07s swung their massive heads towards the group as if they’d just now noticed they were there. The one closest to them crawled on hands and knees through the room and smacked something- presumably an emergency close button, and in a few short seconds the suction was over and the airlock closed.

They smashed into the ground in a messy heap of robot and trash. Enjolras wasted no time in bringing his friends to the safety of the waste room.

Nervously, he looked over Grantaire, calling to him softly but only able to see a faded red alert flashing on the robot’s chest, paired with a low battery icon in the dark of the garbage disposal.

Once again the R-07s came to their aid, shuffling over and bearing down their lights onto the tiny group. They sat with their hands folded politely, appearing awkward, maybe even sad and Enjolras briefly wondered if all R-07s who’d survived this long had been doomed to a lifetime of lonely consciousness.

He settled Grantaire against a trash heap, using a gentle hand to cup his face upwards.
Grantaire’s eyes fluttered open.

“Enjolras?” He croaked, no louder than the beeping of his alarm.

Nodding, Enjolras held back a cry, “Yeah, I’m here, we made it. How are you?”

Grantaire groaned, trying to sit up until sparks shot out of his chest.

“Ah!” he cried, eyes flashing open.

“Grantaire,” Joly asked as calmly as he could, “Can you run a diagnostic on yourself?”

“I can-,” he mumbled, “I can feel it- it’s my circuit board- it’s fried.”

A previously hidden slot in his chest opened to reveal just that- a small smoking disk still attached by cord to his core. Sizzling could be heard from it, paired with more tiny sparks.

Enjolras lightly picked it up, scanning it over before uploading it to his drive.

“I’ll look for something,” he declared, ignoring Grantaire’s faint protests in favor of flying off to scan the floor as fast as he could for similar parts.

The two R-07s above them seemed to have a wordless discussion, one continuing to cast light while the other turned to paw delicately through the trash with a large, metal finger.

Joly helped make Grantaire more comfortable while they waited, using his internal cooling system to blow cool air over Grantaire’s fried gears- aerating them until the frantic beeping of the alarm became more consistent and less rushed.

A jarringly loud whistle from the overhead giant alerted them to Enjolras’ return. He flew down in front of Grantaire, holding up several pieces similar to Grantaire’s.

His face fell when Grantaire shook his head at each one.

“Enj,” Grantaire whispered. He pawed at his chest until he knocked his compressor open. Slowly, he drew out the plant he’d shoved inside.

“Earth,” he whispered quietly.

“Grantaire,” Enjolras wept, his eyes shining with unshed tears, “I don’t care about that right now. We need to get you to Cosette, she might-”

“-Enjolras,” Grantaire repeated more strongly as he pressed the plant to Enjolras’ chest plate, “Earth.”

He deliberately blinked one eye- then the other, then both at the same time as he tapped lightly on his circuit board .

Enjolras froze, mouthing the words as he held the plant.

“Earth. Earth- EARTH! My god-I’m so stupid! You have repair parts on Earth!” he cried.

Joly, who’d been watching silently, squealed loudly as he was tugged against Grantaire and into Enjolras’ arms as the blond fired a plasma bolt at the ceiling, creating a massive hole to fly out of.

Before taking off Enjolras turned to the R-07s, who maintained their eerie twin stares at them.

“I won’t forget what you both did for us today. If we survive this- I’m getting you both out of here, I swear it,” he promised.

Maybe it was a trick of the light- but he swore he could see their mouths perk up into matching smiles.

The two giants waved to the group as they flew through the ceiling, once again being left alone in complete silence.

The two didn’t return to work immediately, instead taking some time to process the events that had just occurred. After all, it had been a very long time since they’d seen another living thing.

“They loved each other too,” one said in a soft melodious tone, gazing at the glowing hole in the ceiling.

The other reached forward- taking her hand in her own.

“So they did,” she agreed.

“Do you think they’ll make it?”

Another serene smile.

“I think so.”

—--------------------------------------------------------------------

The Amis met them in a large storage room off the hallway, uncommonly serious.

“What’s the plan?” Combeferre asked, “We’re all with you, whatever it is.”

Grantaire gave a grim smile from his spot against Enjolras’ chest, waving at a confused Montparnasse- who’d been dragged into this by Jehan but looked determined all the same.

Enjolras nodded at the wall full of chairs and old furniture.

“We’re gonna build a barricade.”

In the back, Bahorel grinned widely and cracked his knuckles, “Oh fuck yeah,” he chuckled.

Enjolras continued, “You guys will defend it- acting like I’m hiding with Grantaire in here while we actually make our way to the main center.”

He turned to Combeferre and Feuilly, “I need you both to hack into the ship’s control system and activate the Lido deck- if I can put the plant into the Holo Detector the ship will automatically chart us a course to Earth- Javert won’t be able to override it.”

“-Actually,” Feuilly politely cut in, “Captain Valjean alerted Cosette on the way here- said he already managed to do that. He’s in the process of figuring out how to disable Javert’s autopilot settings- but there’s still probably going to be a massive amount of security bots headed our way soon.”

Grantaire made a soft whirring sound at the mention of the captain.
“Is he ok?” he breathed out.

Cosette rubbed his arm comfortingly as she helped pick away at the melted debris in his circuit board, “Yes- sweetheart, he’s fine-”

She jumped as a loud security announcement blared through the PA system.

“Attention all passengers, this is an emergency declaration- there is a threat located aboard the Axiom in your area. Please make your way to your sleeping pods through the Lido Deck in a calm, orderly fashion. Any unusual activity should be reported to a security bot, thank you.”

Marius placed a supporting arm around Cosette, looking utterly pissed for the first time since the Amis had known him. He shared a glance with Enjolras, who tightened his hold on Grantaire.

He turned to the others with a grim look, “Time to get going.”

“Oh FUCK yeah!” Bahorel howled.

 

Unknown to the group, Valjean was in the middle of a face-off with Javert after having been caught contacting Cosette.

“Captain,” Javert glowered from where he stood over a heavily-breathing Valjean, “You are under house arrest- contact with anyone is not allowed.”

“My apologies,” Valjean muttered, pivoting on his back and sweeping his legs under Javert to send him to the floor.

They grappled for a moment, Valjean gaining the upper hand for a split second before Javert managed to outweigh him, placing him in an unstable chokehold.

“Ja-vert,” Valjean gasped, face turning red.

“Captain, if you cannot follow orders and pose a threat to the inhabitants of the ship- I will be forced to dispose of you,” he said coldly, green eyes flashing.

He activated the shock beam in his hand again, bringing it closer and closer to the captain's face as Valjean’s grip started to fail.

Valjean watched the sparks get closer and closer until he could feel the heat of it on his face.

Just when he started to say his prayers, though, the weight on him disappeared entirely.

Gasping for air and choking on it- he stumbled upright, looking for his fiancé.

 

He found him hunched over a section of the control panel, electricity buzzing around him in an out of control blaze. He was shaking and doing his best to push himself away from the captain and up against the panel.

“Javert?” he asked cautiously, receiving a pained gasp in response.

Javert turned to look at him, eyes flickering between green and blue LEDs as he struggled for control.

“Valjean,” he bit out, “by the stars- turn me off!”

Valjean rushed over, careful not to touch him in case of dangerous voltage.

“How?! Will it hurt you?” He asked, hands hovering uselessly.

“Back…of the…the neck, a button, reboot” he gasped.

“Will it hurt you?!” Valjean begged, but Javert just gave him a fierce glare.

“Valjean! You’re Captain!” he hissed, “Protect…our passengers! NOW!”

Valjean let a prayer loose, twisting behind the sparking robot until he located an almost invisible dibbit in the skin- signaling a button.
Voltage burned up his arm as he pressed it and he watched, paralyzed as Javert crumpled to the floor.

He gathered the man up in his arms, pressing their heads together and swaying slowly- going over every trick he could think of to stop the spiraling taking over his mind.

“Put on your Sunday clothes, there’s lots of world out there…” he sang softly into the other’s hair, combing through it with a trembling hand.

“Get out the brilliantine and dime cigars …we’re gonna find adventure in the evening air. Girls in white, in a perfumed night- where the lights are bright as the stars-”

“-Please stop,” Javert groaned and Valjean gasped, laughing and sobbing at the same time.

“Why?” he chuckled wetly, combing through Javert’s hair with shaking fingers, “You don’t like my singing?”

“No, I do- but the last time you did my circuits glitched and I was stuck hearing it for three weeks,” Javert mumbled crossly, leaning back unsteadily and gazing about the room.

“Thank god that’s over.”

“You were conscious for all of that?” Valjean asked nauseously.

Javert sighed, nodding, “Yes- this one was much harder to override than the typical security autopilot mode. They did not mess around with that coding.”

He turned to Valjean and gave him a small smirk.

“You’re very attractive when commanding, my dear Captain.”

Valjean spluttered, red-faced but amused, “Oh- alright. Christ, just get up. We need to contact the kids.”

They held onto each other for support as they wobbled their way up and to the control panel.

“Oh shit…” Javert echoed, seeing the burnt controls.

Valjean echoed this statement, realizing that without the controls there would be no way to control the ship’s course- or even keep it upright.

Javert sighed.

“For the first time, I’m glad you’re good at hacking.”

—------------------------------------------------------------

Enjolras and Grantaire had barely made it past the bots, and not entirely unharmed either. Enjolras had taken a flare to a leg, completely disconnecting it at the knee. He had to operate at full throttle power to go half as fast as he’d like to.
Grantaire was declining too. With each passing second the battery icon on his chest dwindled further, making him increasingly lethargic.

Enjolras clutched him to his chest, whispering words of love and support in an attempt to distract him from increasingly bad chances of survival- chances Enjolras had to consciously stop himself from calculating.

They burst into the Lido deck, floating above hundreds upon hundreds of confused humans, with more piling out the door.

The Amis weren’t far behind them, shoving their way through to assure eyes on Enjolras and Grantaire at all times.

Just as they made it to the Holo Detector, however, the ship took a sudden turn sideways and they smashed into it. In the process the plant was thrown out of Grantaire’s hands, sliding off the platform and to the crowd of terrified people and robots.

Enjolras propped Grantaire against the detector and flew out over them unsteadily, frantic to find it.

Each time he thought he spotted it, it would get swallowed up by the growing pile of people stuck against the side of the upturned ship.

He found himself hovering at the edge of the crowd, pulling out children who were suffocating in the crush while desperately searching.

Even worse, a large train had been derailed and was sliding along the ground at increasing speed- threatening to crush them all. He rushed forwards to guide it between two support beams, mostly successful- but resulting in him getting pinned.

Grantaire was still against the detector, trying to fight gravity and stay on the platform. He almost missed it when the detector, having reached its time limit for operating, gave a quiet beep and started deactivating- the circular tube making its way back into the ground.

“No!” he gasped, clinging to it and pushing against the lid in an attempt to keep it pried open. He struggled, gears whining in protest, but he couldn’t manage for long.

In a fit of panic and wild instinct- he shoved his legs- then waist into the gap of space between the detector and its storage spot.

The detector continued downward still, grinding and mangling his legs until it was nothing but twisted metal. It tugged him further down until Grantaire was half in, half out of the ground. The hole for the plant was barely out of the ground and the machine still pushed downward, threatening to crush him altogether.
He was barely functioning and sparking all to hell but he could still hear Enjolras’ heart-wrenching cries from where he was crushed behind the train, watching.

“I’m sorry Enj,” he whispered, getting tugged further down, “I’m so sorry.”

 

Gravity took a better turn then, the ship somehow righting itself and the people spilled out of the massive pile.
Enjolras, too, was freed, and in a flash he was by Grantaire’s side- pulling with all his might against the strength of the holo detector, barely balancing on his remaining leg.

“THE PLANT!” he screamed at the top of his lungs, “FIND THE PLANT!”

Everyone who heard started spreading the word, turning to the next person to try and locate the plant. The Amis were amongst them, describing it as best to their abilities and scouting the ground.

All the while Enjolras fought against the tug of the machine, begging Grantaire to be alive, to stay alive- anything but to be dead.

“Come on, Grantaire, please! Please just hang on a little longer!” he cried.

“ENJOLRAS!” Bahorel cried, and Enjolras snapped his eyes over just in time to see none other than Captain Valjean and Co-piolet, First Officer Javert.

For a moment he felt utter despair at the sight of the plant in Javert’s hands, but the sorrow quickly lifted when Javert wound back his arm, took a step forwards- and flung it with all his might towards Enjolras.

It sailed in a beautiful, even arc- landing directly within Enjolras’ arm length.

He snapped it out of the air and flung it into the Holo Detector, crouching down to grasp Grantaire’s chest.

“Plant origin verified,” the computer echoed, "Setting a course to: Earth.”

With a gut-wrenching twist of metal the detector rose back out of the floor, spilling with it the wreckage that was Grantaire.

“Grantaire?” he murmured, twisting him over to look at him.

He was cold and silent without a single indication of life.

“Ten seconds to hyper-jump.”

“No…no,” Enjolras breathed, cupping his face gently, “no this can’t happen.”

“Five seconds. Five…four…three…two…activating hyper-jump!”

“GRANTAIRE!”

The ship hyper-jumped and Enjolras keeled over, gasping past his desperate keening.

Shockwaves vibrated through the ship, sending everyone to the floor.

It burst through the atmosphere, sending brilliant rings of light over the ship in a dazzling display as it shot through the air and towards their long-abandoned home.

Enjolras didn’t even bother waiting for the ship to stop moving, just flying as fast as he could with Grantaire’s limp, broken body as they hit earth’s atmosphere.
When the ship made its graceful descent he was already waiting by the hangar doors.

Each second felt like long, dreadful hours. They ticked away from him, taking little parts of his soul along with them as each one lessened the chances of Grantaire’s survival.

He had long stopped being able to block himself from running the statistics in his head, fully aware of how damning it was now that he could see the almost nonexistent number ticking over Grantaire’s head at all times.

He cursed inwardly at the doors.

“Come on, please!” he begged, and they obeyed.

He wedged himself out of the opening doors, speeding through the air as fast as his remaining engine would allow, the Amis watching anxiously from the crowd behind him.

It didn’t take long for him to find his bearings, he recognized the scorch marks in the ground on the desert outskirts as the marks from his first arrival.

He weaved and darted between buildings, through the dust and dirt.

“There it is!” he cried, spotting the storage unit in the distance and pushing himself even further.

 

The moment he got the doors open he was moving, placing Grantaire on the floor in the center of the room as he skimmed through the shelves until he found the one with organized parts.
He scanned frantically, snatching up screws and parts in order from most to least important. His own gears started overheating and protesting from the speed at which he forced himself to operate, replacing parts so quickly the human eye certainly couldn’t catch it.
His last step was to unfold the solar panels in Grantaire’s collarbones. Immediately after, he activated his weapon and blew a hole in the roof of the storage unit, allowing the sunlight to pour inside and onto Grantaire’s still form.

The sun illuminated his face from where he laid on the ground, making his skin glow with the reflection, and Enjolras crouched next to him- careful not to block the sunlight from reaching the figure on the ground. He stared at the charging screen on Grantaire’s neck, never taking his eyes away, not even for a second.

For a pure, agonizing minute nothing happened.

Until it did.

A soft beep, combined with a yellow charging bar appeared- and Enjolras cried out in relief.

The sun was overhead- so it didn’t take long for Grantaire to recharge at all, at most only a couple minutes.

When he awoke though, he said nothing.

His pale, bleached-blue eyes gazed up at the ceiling, unmoving.

Enjolras grasped his hand softly, “Grantaire?”

The robot turned to him but showed no sign of recognition or even thought. Spurred on by movement, however, he jerkily made his way to his feet. He turned on his heel and began walking out the door, only stopped by Enjolras’ hold on his fingers.

“Grantaire, look at me- don’t you recognize me?” he asked, tugging Grantaire back down to the floor.

“It’s me- Enjolras,” he begged, “I’m Enj- your Apollo, god please, Grantaire?”

He turned, snatching the lightbulb and patterned cube from the shelves, pushing them into his hands.

“These are yours! Your precious things, don’t you want them?”

Grantaire looked down at the objects and an idea sparked in Enjolras’ mind. He stood up, flying over to grab the tape and start the human recording. He started it up, turning up the volume before turning around to show Grantaire- but he stopped dead at the sight of a big square of twisted items- the precious things that he had just crushed.
Grantaire was nowhere to be seen.

Enjolras flew unsteadily to the entrance, clinging onto the storage door for balance and support, looking around.

Grantaire was on the ground, scooping up trash into his chest compressor, turning out perfectly square block after block.

Enjolras flew over, forgetting about his damaged leg as he landed, falling into the dirt beside him.

“Grantaire,” he coughed, “come on!”

He struggled to sit up, grabbing at Grantaire’s sleeve until he was facing him.

He pressed the recording button on Grantaire’s chest- letting the music fill the air between them and threading their fingers together.

“Please,” he whispered, placing his forehead against Grantaire’s.

“Please, Grantaire. One more miracle, for me.” he pleaded.

Grantaire just stared at him- eyes wide and empty.

Enjolras couldn’t stand it and closed his own.

“Please.”

He moved forward and placed a soft kiss on Grantaire’s lips before leaning back to slump against his lover’s chest, heartbroken.

 

“...Enj?”

Enjolras froze, unwilling to believe what he’d heard but too scared to confirm it.

“Apollo? Are you okay?” Grantaire asked, carding a gentle hand through the back of Enjolras’ hair and tilting his head up slowly.

Enjolras couldn’t believe it.

Those sweet sky-blue eyes were pinched in concern, a tenuous look of confusion for the situation being overridden by his desire to comfort Enjolras.

Enjolras was speechless, his own alarms quietly flooding his mind as color filled his vision once again.

Grantaire glanced behind him, re-noticing the lack of Enjolras’ foot.

“Enjolras! He exclaimed in horror, “fuck, what hap-”

Enjolras tackled him, planting kisses on every inch of skin he could find while laughing joyfully.

Grantaire shouted in surprise but didn’t dare, nor wish, to pause Enjolras’ affections- so he simply grinned and laughed along to his favorite sound in the world.

 

Distantly, he thought the music playing in the background was lovely too.

Adjusting to Earth hadn’t been even close to as difficult as everyone thought it would be.

Mostly because everyone still lived on the Axiom, as earth still wasn’t fit for drastic improvement just yet.

Still, Enjolras thought it was a marginal improvement to how the humans had been living before- now they routinely went outside to farm and mingle, frequently helping the giant R-07s in the volunteer cleanup.

Cosette especially had been invaluable, having scanned each and every piece of Grantaire’s spare parts for additional manufacturing and modification- he had the option of switching to an electric charger if he wanted.

Enjolras was pretty certain he’d never take it though.

“Grantaire!” he called up to the roof of the storage container before floating steadily up to join him.

“Hmm-hmm?” Grantaire asked, smiling lazily at him as he sunbathed in his suit.

He’d refused the charging port- but he’d taken her up on getting entirely new cosmetic pieces. His ratty, dust-filled hair had been replaced with thick, bouncing black curls and his bleached eye chips with darker, sweeter new ones.

He still looked like himself- just happier, less worn out and tired.

He looked whole.

 

“You ready to go? The ceremony’s about to start,” he asked, offering a hand.

Grantaire took it, winking playfully, “Right, it wouldn’t do to be late to our own wedding.”

Enjolras hauled him up and helped him dust off his black suit, “Well it would be very on par for us, wouldn’t it?”

They giggled to each other, realizing that they’d never actually be able to get the dirt out.

A voice called down from below.

“Hey lovebirds!! You ready??” Eponine called.

“Absolutely!” Grantaire answered, settling himself into Enjolras’ arms.

He gazed at his soon-to-be husband as he was lifted into the air- then at the sprawling fields around them, dotted with tiny green plants.Looking at Enjolras framed by the green behind him filled his chest with something he couldn’t name.A chuckle rumbled through Enjolras’ chest and Grantaire noticed the smile he was getting.

“What are you grinning at?” he giggled.

“Oh nothing,” Enjolras teased, “just admiring the view.”

Grantaire blushed and hid his face to hide his smile. Down below, Eponine called for them again.

As they flew away it dawned on Grantaire what he was feeling.

It was peace.

Completely pure and untainted by fear or uncertainty.

Grantaire loved selflessly, and he was loved selflessly in return.

Grantaire hummed as they flew over the fields toward their massive awaiting crowd.

“Put on your Sunday clothes, there's lots of world out there…”

 

La Fin.