Title: Arras
Work ID: 47561926
Author: HoneyBeam521
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Confessions, Moral Dilemmas, First Kiss, First Time, First Time Blow Jobs, Oral Sex, Carriage Sex, Coming Untouched, Coming In Pants, Enthusiastically Obsequious Javert
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert has more than one confession to make to Monsieur Madeleine after the incident with Fantine, and what follows deeply shocks them both.

Work text:

Monsieur Madeleine didn’t look up from his work.

He had no reason to do so. He had matters of business to attend to. If the person who had entered into his rooms had no desire to speak to him, then they could leave as soon as they’d come.

When more than two whole minutes passed between himself and his anonymous guest without a word, only with breaths and the soft scraping of Madeleine’s pen across his page, Madeleine, at last, decided that he had lost the battle of wills with his unknown competitor and looked up from the pile of pages he had been poring over.

It was Inspector Javert. That was no surprise. Not in principle, anyhow. Madeleine would have been shocked to have won a battle of wills against a man like Javert, who, as far as he could tell, had never once endured a pleasurable moment.

But what was surprising was the manner in which Javert held himself: One was accustomed to seeing Javert walk around Montreuil-sur-Mer a man of imperturbable pride, of a straight, high collar that matched the angle of his spine and perfectly-polished boots. The man’s clothes were in fine order that day, but his spine was considerably bent, and his gaze, not its usual piercing arrow into a path before him, moved restlessly over the floor.

“Monsieur le Maire,” he said, gravely. Madeleine set down his pen and watched Javert’s unusually wan face. He held his hat at his chest and his arm behind his back; he may have been a mourner at a State funeral. “I have come to report offenses. Several offenses, grave offenses that have been committed by an inferior against his direct superior in this town.”

As Javert, despite his appearance, was up to nothing more than his usual ways, Madeleine thought it safe to return his gaze and his pen to his work as he replied.

“Very well. Give me the name of the offender, and I will ensure that the matter is given all due attention.”

Javert was silent for a long moment. Madeleine went on with his writing. If his visitor planned to say nothing during his visit, he would allow him to do so. It was, therefore, a great and dual shock for the mayor when Javert at last spoke again.

“‘Javert’ is the name, Monsieur le Maire. I am the offender.”

This time, Madeleine not only looked up, but placed his pen down, folded his hands, and looked directly into the face of the man before him. No gaze met his; Javert’s eyes were still trained on the ground where the tip of his shoe traced the line of a floorboard.

“And... what is it that you’ve done, Monsieur Javert?”

“Not... ‘Monsieur,’ please, Monsieur le Maire,” Javert said, somehow, in this bizarre state of mind, still sure and forthright. “I am not mad. I am telling you the truth: I denounced you, a public magistrate, to my superiors in Paris. I come here to request my immediate dismissal on the grounds of gross insubordination.” Madeleine frowned.

“And why did you do it?” The memory of the scene in the prison all those weeks ago flashed through his mind in all its horrible colors. “Because of a mayor wrongfully exercising his authority over the police? It was a simple failure to recognize code, Javert. You did nothing wrong.” At once, what had been grave and grey in Javert’s face burst into furious animation.

“No, sir, it is much worse than that!” Javert looked into Madeleine’s eyes for the first time since he’d entered, and withdrew his gaze again almost immediately. “I denounced you because I was... angry... I chafed at your authority... I thought that you did not deserve it, for... although I lacked proof... I believed you, by some curious parallel in your appearance and abilities, to be a convict I once oversaw in the galleys at Toulon, a strong man, who broke his parole... a man by the name of Jean Valjean.”

Madeline was glad for the fact that Javert had looked away from him once more. With a slightly shaking hand, the mayor took up his pen and began writing on a new piece of parchment, though he hardly knew what he wrote.

“‘Jean Valjean,’ you said.”

“Yes, sir.”

“And you were proven false in this assumption.”

“Yes, sir.”

“How so?”

“I was told I was mad.” Madeleine fixed the man with a gaze by way of inducing him to explain. Javert went on, “The real Jean Valjean—a man who plays at idiocy, calling himself ‘Champmathieu’ and refusing to admit to a single one of his offenses—has already been found and taken into custody. He will be tried in Arras tomorrow evening. I plan to travel there myself to testify to his likeness.”

Madeleine nodded. He did not go back to writing, but, rather, began rolling his pen between his fingers, and furrowed his brow in thought. Evidently he was at this for some time, for Javert was calling him with some insistence when at last he heard again.

“Monsieur le Maire?”

“Yes?”

“Are you going to dismiss me, sir?”

The furrow in Madeleine’s brow deepened. “Why should I do such a thing?” Javert appeared struck by the question: His mouth opened and closed several times before he began to string words together.

“I was flagrantly insubordinate, sir. Without that which is necessary to exact justice, proof, I accused you of being a criminal degenerate. Had it been determined by the court that you were Jean Valjean, sir, you would have wrongly been condemned to the prison hulks for life. It is only right that I should be punished, sir.”

Madeleine shook his head. “I am the wronged, Javert, and I say I do not mind this... insubordination of yours. There’s no need for punishment.”

Javert gave the appearance of laughing sardonically—his lips curled over long teeth and lines traced around his mouth and between his brows—but no sound issued from his mouth.

“Ah, Monsieur... to be frank, Monsieur, it is this which I have always admired the least about you. This... propensity you have towards kindness... but not real kindness. Pernicious kindness. The kind that values the officer over the magistrate and the prostitute over the citizen. The kind that leads to the erosion of the pillars of society.” Javert paused, and his gaze lifted from the floor once more, looking a touch less frenzied this time. “Monsieur must do as he wishes, of course. But I will remind him that it is for the benefit of Montreuil-sur-Mer and her people that a nark not be allowed to remain among her chief officers of the law.”

Leaning back in his chair, Madeleine gave himself over to thought again. When he stood, Javert remained where he was, now busying himself with rubbing bits of inky sawdust from the edge of Madeleine’s desk between his fingers.

“I am not going to dismiss you.”

“No, sir?” He still didn’t look up. “Well, then... sir....” He was quiet for a moment, and went on just above a whisper, “I had rather hoped that it wouldn’t come to this.”

Madeleine paused, if possible, more perplexed than before. “I’m sorry?”

“There is another confession I have to make, sir,” Javert said, very evenly; very slowly. “And then, perhaps, Monsieur may definitively decide if I should remain as the Police Inspector of Montreuil-sur-Mer.”

“All right,” Madeleine said, squaring his shoulders as if preparing for a physical blow. “What else have you done, Javert?”

The fortitude and assurance with which Javert had spoken of his sins until that moment seemed to fail him. The man shuddered, and did not speak for a time, and when he did, it was in a low, halting voice.

“It... is... not what I have done, sir, but, rather, what I have thought.” He swallowed, and seemed to concentrate very hard on the sawdust falling like snow through his fingers. “I have... of late... allowed myself to become... preoccupied... by thoughts revolving around you, Monsieur.”

Stricken suddenly by a highly emotional thought—more a paroxysm of feeling than a thought— Madeleine took a moment to respond. Could Javert be—? 

But, no. The rational mind quickly snapped shut on that dangerous line of thinking and supplied, instead, feasible reasons why Javert might make such an admission. Madeleine took a step closer to Javert, and, thinking to affect a lighter mood, clapped the inspector heartily on the shoulder. The man jumped about a foot.

“Naturally, Javert, naturally—if you thought me a criminal, it follows perfectly that you would think of me often. As you say, you were planning my arrest. Thought would no doubt have been required. What more are you admitting to?” He asked him, smiling in a way that he couldn’t possibly feel. Javert swallowed once more, louder, and turned his face upward with his eyes closed, in the attitude of a supplicant. Madeleine swallowed, too.

“These thoughts have not been to do with the crimes I’ve suspected you of committing, Monsieur; rather, these thoughts have been intemperate in nature,” Javert said, all at once, rushed; words hissing through his teeth. He seized Madeleine’s gaze suddenly. “Well, Monsieur? Would you have me go on? Would you have me debase myself further, or is what I have said sufficient?”

A frightening maelstrom of emotions fought for control in Madeleine’s chest as he stared back into those clear, hard eyes. He reached backwards for the arm of his chair and leaned heavily against it; he dropped the gaze, and breathed, and pressed his hand against his eyes.

“Monsieur—”

“Allow me to think, please, Javert,” he snapped. When, at last, he passed into the proverbial eye of the storm, the place at which he could drag any rational words to the fore, Madeleine spoke again. “We will... talk again when you are back from Arras. You are to remain in your post as Inspector until we have the time to discuss this matter further.”

Javert must have made some reply, but Madeleine heard nothing. When his mind finally slowed and he looked up from his desk again, Javert had gone.

There was, indeed, much for Monsieur Madeleine to think about.

The night was scarcely a “night” for Jean Valjean.

He—one man caught between two disparate names—had borne the respected name of “Madeleine” for long enough that he had believed his body and mind shed of the curse of his former life. And yet there it was before him once again, and the soul that had come to inhabit the body that had been granted him identified with it as soon as it was said.

At once the marriage of the name to the man was renewed, in all its hideous stains and sorrows. Pretend as he might that he was the ever-righteous, blameless being that existed as Monsieur Madeleine, the man who had sprung fully-formed from the flames of a burning building five years before, and had never once committed a knowing act of wrong, the sight was clear before him: The man inhabiting the strong frame within the modest house situated beside the town hall of Montreuil-sur-Mer had transfigured back into the criminal, the devilish shadow haunting the edge of society hoping never to be named: Jean Valjean. He was wholly that man once again, and, once again, that man was wrestling on the verge of committing a grave sin.

For hours and hours, for so long that the untended fire in his hearth burned itself into just-living coals, Valjean fought with temptation, with thoughts that seduced with the allure of comfort and familiarity, with the comfortable hiding-place of “Monsieur Madeleine;” with the implicit promise that Jean Valjean could go on in his silent existence, pretending as he had been, wearing a shining mask of purity and never once being questioned. If he only ceded to the pull of forgetting the life of another whose life he had not even known until that day, of deciding that this faraway man, this criminal who bore his face and body was not as worthy of his freedom as the invented Monsieur Madeleine was of his....

But he was. Over and over again, no matter how Valjean approached the matter, his soul could always reply: Champmathieu is a man. He, unlike “Monsieur Madeleine,” had been born of a man and a woman and had lived a human life that would be warped and hardened and eventually destroyed by the galleys. He was not merely a criminal; he was perhaps not a criminal at all. Even if Champmathieu were a criminal, he had not done the things that Valjean had done, and so these things should not be allowed to fall upon his head.

Valjean worked in earnest, fought through the dark hours to find a way free of the hempen rope binding his wrists, the cutting, painful thing that tied him indelibly to his promise of goodness. If he allowed this thing to pass... if he allowed another to take up his discarded name, to go to prison in his stead... he could continue on in service to Montreuil. He would build up the jet business even further, make more money; extend his public works to the countryside as well as the town. He would save a hundred men like Champmathieu in the future, a thousand—!


It was not enough. 


It would have been one thing to have been ignorant. For Javert to never have appeared before him, never told him about his suspicions, and for Champmathieu’s sentence to have been passed silently and inexorably as any of those borne by the thousands of criminals condemned to prison every day. But Jean Valjean knew, and knowing, he could not pretend any longer.

So, in the early hours of the morning, Valjean went about finding a way to Arras. The mail coach would be too late, fast as it was. There was no-one to hire so early in the morning. In the end, he had to make do with a tiny gig that seized and shuddered as if it were held together by twine. His horse was a flyer, but for how long would this one animal run?

Valjean didn’t know, and he didn’t find out. If he had been able to think of anything but the circumstances of his travel, perhaps he would have noted the time of his parting, or calculated when he was to arrive, or noted when, passing the mail coach on his way into Montreuil, his wheel glanced off of a large stone hard enough that the small vehicle was disabled entirely. He didn’t know the time. It was still dark when he was forced to stop. The stars were still shining, perversely beautiful in the sky; it was they, in fact, that led him to a curious point of fortune: A small, two-horse carriage that had paused at the edge of the road just meters away from where his horse had trotted to the roadside.

A lamp hung near to where the driver, presumably, would have sat, but there was nobody there. On Valjean’s approach a man opened the carriage door a little and then stepped out; when he separated himself from the shadows, Valjean recognized him with a jolt.

“Good morning, Javert,” he said, and touched the brim of his hat. The inspector started, then furrowed his brow, squinting hard through the lamplight at Valjean.

“Monsieur le Maire,” he said on discerning Valjean’s identity, and bowed slightly at the waist. “This is—I—forgive me, sir, but I wasn’t aware that you were traveling in this direction this morning. I would have requested that you join me. Where is Monsieur headed?”

“Arras, just as you are,” Valjean said, and went on quickly, “I was curious to see the face of the man that you were convinced I was for so long.”

“Ah,” Javert replied. No further questions. Not even a trace of suspicion in the voice or the face.

“To the point of your asking me to join you: My gig has a broken axle. As you’re here....”

Javert’s driver chose that moment to return, footsteps crunching through dead leaves as he made his way out of the copse nearby and back to his post. Javert’s gaze flickered between the driver and Valjean, and he said,

“By all means, Monsieur.” He even went so far as to open the door for Valjean, and Valjean looked between the dark, empty space and the inspector before stepping up and inside.

Until ascending the carriage, Valjean hadn’t observed the exact proportions of the thing. It turned out to be quite small on the inside, with a single seat just large enough for two men—not quite large enough, really, as Valjean in particular was quite broad in the shoulders. They inevitably touched, even when Valjean made an effort to take up as little space as possible. He murmured an apology to Javert, but the man seemed to pay the word no mind.

With that, they turned away from each other, each to his own window. In the presence of Javert, and in the presence of the blade hanging over his neck, Jean found that his thoughts tended in a new direction. Alone, he had been consumed by thought of the future, of what would happen if he gave himself up for Champmathieu; of what it would be like, throwing himself back into the pit at Toulon for the rest of his days for crimes he had committed a whole life ago.

It was different riding with Javert. At first, Valjean had no thoughts at all; there was something in him that forbore, that told him that he must not even think of what he was preparing to do, lest he should give up his secret to the inspector before they even arrived. But after some minutes of quiet, of the movement of the carriage that pushed the men’s bodies against one another and the infiltration of the clean scent of a fastidious person in his nose and mouth, Valjean began to think again... but found that his thoughts were inclined towards the present rather than the future.

What, after all, was there to be gained anymore by temperance; by chastity? Denial of the flesh only served him and God if his flesh were his own. Shortly, it would be no longer.

Valjean turned a little to look at Javert’s face. Its lines and shadows stood out in the light from the lamp swinging by the driver’s side, touched with gold at the cheeks and the chin. It was the face of a man in the prime of his life, a man of conviction and quiet nobility; a man who was faraway and stolid and curiously unwed, though when he spoke, it was so often to uphold man’s duty towards the betterment of society.

Suddenly Valjean knew why that curiosity existed.

Already Valjean and Javert touched without purpose due to the minimal space afforded them in the carriage. Still, when Valjean moved his hand, when he softly but deliberately touched Javert’s knee, the inspector noticed and turned his way. Their gazes met. Questioning. Although he knew he had a hold on Javert’s attention, Valjean spoke, breaking through the soft cacophony of inanimate things.

“Javert,” he said, in a manner unfamiliar to his own voice: low and secretive, even in the privacy of the carriage. Valjean found he could conclude nothing from Javert’s face, other than that he was puzzling him out, for the cool eyes would not remain still, jumping from point to point over Valjean’s face and arms. The man was perturbed, perhaps. Silent. But he didn’t move away from Valjean’s hand or gaze.

This, surely, was as close to being a foreign position as it possibly could have been without being entirely unknown to Valjean’s experience. A memory existed deep within him, carved hard into the back of his brain: The recollection of running and laughing with another young person in a verdant, flower-specked field in Faverolles. A girl? A boy? The detail was lost, but what remained was the shadow of past delight, the clear recollection of falling down into warm grass in the sun and staring into a smiling face until the laughter fell away, passing into something different, something novel and ardent that silenced them and drew their lips together. Never had any hands been pledged or promises exchanged, but, always, there had been joy.

For the second time in his life, Valjean found himself staring into a face which drew him in. He was, without sensing it, that boy of fifteen once more: Gentle, cautious; shifting slowly, as to not frighten away the tremulous thing that existed invisibly between him and another.

Their lips touched. The space turned from dim to dark as Valjean closed his eyes, and his hands moved once more, to find purchase on Javert’s shoulders. There was another living sound, from Javert this time: a hard breath or sigh, indefinable, yet an encouraging breeze on the flame searing in Valjean’s chest. What had been a matter of care, of tentative moments and control, was instantly consumed; in its place yawned a hungry void that wanted nothing more than to be filled with something decadent in the body’s last moments of freedom.

Valjean pressed closer; one of his hands came up to hold Javert’s face still and taste his mouth, and that visceral sound poured out once more, hot on Valjean’s tongue. All perpetuated all: Valjean’s mouth moved over Javert’s, taking in the taste absent any note of wine or tobacco or other indulgence—there was only the man, and when he tasted of him, the cries that proceeded from him drove Valjean madder, farther forward, closer in his seat until he pulled back for breath enough to notice that Javert’s long legs were close to straddling his lap.

His chest heaved in breaths and Valjean was back to looking at Javert again, a Javert changed by his touches into an unrecognizable creature of slackened mouth and sweating temples; of reddish cheeks and ears cut through by lines of dark hair that had managed to escape the perfectly-tied ribbon at the base of his skull. Valjean reached out for the end of that ribbon and pulled, letting Javert’s hair fall like a curtain over his shoulder; he reached up with both his hands and raked strong fingers over Javert’s scalp to hold his head perfectly still as he leaned in to taste him again.

Valjean had been right to deny himself this pleasure until just before his condemnation—this was a sin in which there were contained so many others. He found that it was not merely one of lust, but also of avarice and gluttony: The more he had, the more he desired of the other man’s touch, taste and voice; the less he wished to be parted from him for any length of time, and the more the hunger gnawed deep in his belly.

When he felt Javert touch him in return for the first time, a touch that pushed rather than pulled or encouraged, Valjean broke away at once, riven by the sense that he had done wrong; that he was being turned away from his last wish in freedom. The fire inside him shivered as in a cold breeze. But he found no such attitude in Javert. No, Javert’s eyes, strangely dark, sparked in the inconstant starlight; his hands shook where they touched Valjean, and his throat worked as if he would speak, but he could not expel the words.

“What is it?” Valjean inquired, finding his own voice labored and rasping. “Tell me, Javert.”

“Monsieur,” he said, shaking his head and shading his face with the veil of his hair. He closed his eyes and breathed, and Valjean found himself enthralled by every point at which their bodies touched. “Monsieur, Monsieur, I....”

The proper words never came. Perhaps there had never been any, for, before Valjean could make any further attempt to encourage them, Javert had moved from Valjean’s lap and deposited himself firmly on the floor of the carriage, stable, somehow, despite the inevitable rocking of the vehicle. He gazed up at Valjean with wildness in his eyes and his waves of suddenly unkempt hair, and his large hands trembled on Valjean’s knees.

Once more, they did not speak. Exhaustion and frayed nerves and a life’s worth of solitude kept Valjean from understanding the meaning of this gesture for long enough that Javert’s eyes fell away from his, only for realization to hit him with such strength that it precipitated a noise from his mouth and an indecent pulse in his groin.

An emphatic nod gave Javert permission to do a thing that he must have been thirsting for—how else could one explain the ardency in his every movement, the reverence with which he touched Valjean’s clothes and pulled them apart to reveal turgid flesh flushed with blood; the rapture in his gaze and gasp and crooked smile? Valjean could not keep his eyes on the man, struck down by an unexpected jolt of shame, only to have to close his eyes entirely as the overwhelming sensation of moist heat engulfed his erection.

At first there was the slight scrape of teeth, an ataxic, unpracticed hand working to establish a rhythm, but it seemed that Valjean’s sighs and grunts were enough to teach Javert precisely what he needed to be doing, for, in short order, the inspector had created within himself a place of absolute bliss. Already Valjean felt his frame filling with delicious tension, nearing its ability to contain the visceral pleasure inside of him, but—

He pried open his eyes to find Javert in the darkness once more. The man was planted firmly in-between Valjean’s thighs, one hand holding his superior’s member with the utmost care, and the other grasping his leg in a sort of rough embrace. One of Valjean’s hands had sneaked its way back into Javert’s hair and moved with him, and his hips rocked of their own accord. Javert’s lips were reddened and swollen; darkened, perhaps bleeding at the corners, but he seemed not to mind: He only moved. He only moved, and sighed out through his nose, the sigh of a man being given everything, taking in the greatest pleasure in the world....

It was enough. It was so quickly enough. For all the years that Valjean had spent denying this thing to himself, for the shocking brilliance that was this act, it was over before he had the chance to think. Untold moments passed in which Valjean knew nearly nothing—and yet the one thing that was known to him, pure, whole, carnal pleasure, exerted such force on him that it kept his eyes closed and his frame still but for the rapid rising and falling of his chest; pressing his limp body into the cushions of the carriage and bidding him take in every delicious taste of feeling he could while it lasted. If he opened his eyes, he was certain he would have shattered again from the impossible strength of feeling within and about him.

When at last the moment came that he could allow himself to see again, Valjean found that his clothes had been put to rights, and that Javert was perched on the seat beside him once more. The inspector was hardly perfect in his presentation, but he seemed as if he would make himself so: He breathed hard, but through his nose only, and he, too, held his eyes closed as he worked to tie up his hair with visibly unsteady hands. More conspicuous than these, however—foreign, enticing—was the way in which flesh strained upward against the fall front of the man’s trousers, and the way Javert made no effort to either ease or conceal himself.

Valjean didn’t allow himself enough of a pause to think. At once his hand clasped Javert’s shoulder and the man’s eyes shot open to find Valjean’s face in the half-light. They were fierce and bright as before; more so, dark and roving, the pale color of them almost completely consumed by blackness. Valjean took Javert’s closest hand, stilled it, and approached him for a consuming kiss. Javert accepted it. His taste was different this time, strange, bestial; intoxicating. Javert allowed his mouth to be ravished with something akin to a whine, but when Valjean touched the outermost part of his thigh—

“Monsieur, you—! You... needn’t, Monsieur,” he gasped, having pulled away with such speed that saliva spun silvery threads between them and broke to fall indecently over Javert’s chin. Javert’s voice was like nothing Valjean had ever heard before: Breathless, shaking, yet somehow secure in its conviction. The man was not being false. Though the body spoke, the man spoke louder—and Valjean found that he wanted nothing more than to silence his protests.

“Do you not desire this, Javert?” Valjean asked, softly; simply. Javert’s eyes went on flickering, and he did not answer but to turn his head, wiping his mouth and shading his eyes with the curtain of his hair. There was much in what the man didn’t say. He hid his face, but was this not a sign of shame rather than refusal?

A thought occurred to Valjean through the warm fog in his brain, and he pursued it.

“You’ve done very much for Montreuil, and much in admitting your wrongs... do you not think you deserve to be rewarded?” He asked, nearly whispering. Javert’s head turned in his direction, but he still did not speak. Valjean moved close and threaded his fingers through the hair at Javert’s temples, holding him firmly but carefully still. “You’ve done much for me, as well. I would very much like to show you my gratitude.”

As he spoke, Valjean removed one of his hands again and rested it on Javert’s thigh, just slightly closer to the crux of the matter—and then Javert cried out, loud and sharp, and covered his mouth with his hand. Valjean looked down to find the inspector’s pale trousers slowly staining dark, and looked away almost as quickly as to not make the man a spectacle.

“F-forgive me,” were Javert’s first, shuddering words, when he appeared to regain the power of speech. “I—I—!”

“Hush, Javert,” Valjean replied. He pulled Javert in to his side and silently bid him calm himself with a hand to his chest. “Rest a while.”

Javert obeyed, slowly. The rest of the journey to Arras proceeded thus: Silent, bodies pressed softly together. When daylight approached, when the signs of civilization began dotting the landscape outside, the men parted, and sat just as they had when Valjean first ascended the carriage.

And then it was as if nothing had happened. When the carriage stopped, Javert alighted first and held the door open. He nodded to Valjean as he stepped down and pointed out the path to the magistrates’ seats with all the obedient civility he ever had. The only difference between this Javert and any other was that his frock coat was buttoned from the bottom to the top, but no-one but Valjean could ever have guessed why that was so.

So, they parted. Javert went to give his testimony, and Valjean went to pretend at being Madeleine for a few more hours.

Somehow, despite his resignation to his fate, there had been a part of Valjean that whispered duplicitous reason into his ear: That, if this man Champmathieu deserved to go to prison, perhaps he would not have to give himself up after all. Perhaps he could go on pretending to be the good man that he had pretended to be for so many years; perhaps he could go on fooling people forever....

But it was not to be. Champmathieu was an innocent man of the most pathetic variety, one of those so stricken by poverty and its consequences that he knew almost nothing. He knew that he was innocent, however, and it was obvious to anyone with an ounce of pity in him that he did not deserve his fate. His face could have been Valjean’s in a different life, one in which he had never learned how to become a bourgeois; one in which he ate and struggled and starved as much as he did during those years with his sister and her children.

Then... there was nothing for it.

It was the accusation that Champmathieu was pretending that drove Valjean to his feet. No... this man was not “pretending.” He likely could not have. But Valjean had for so many years, deceived so many, and after all this iniquity had thought that he might condemn another man in his place. He could bear it no longer.

“Stop!” Valjean cried, drawing all eyes to him where he sat at the right hand of the Judge. Voices began speaking around him, some in whispers, some loud, and yet in all this what drew his attention more than anything was a pair of sharp, cool eyes holding on him from the witness’ seats. “Stop. This man is honest. He is innocent. You will find another man in this courtroom who is not, however: The real Jean Valjean.” He paused, swallowed, and closed his eyes. “I am he.”

There was an uproar, instantly, among the crowd. Proof was demanded, proof that an “honest man” was a thief, though there needed be none to prove the same of Champmathieu. Valjean gave it, displaying with quick words and gestures how he knew each of the imprisoned witnesses; how he had a number branded on his skin, and how he walked with the unmistakable limp of the galley slave. In all this he avoided looking at Javert again.

Until he could no longer. The inspector was told to put Jean Valjean under arrest, and when he came close, he seized Valjean hard by the shoulders and clasped shut the manacles around his wrists with a hard, sick violence; the heavy metal clanged closed like a death knell.

“Look at me,” Javert hissed, and there was flame in his voice; when Valjean looked up, he found wildness again, but it was tempered by something indefinable. Something that had turned Javert’s face ashy like a corpse and his gaze strangely bright. He said no more. They merely gazed for a time, until Javert turned away, dragging Valjean close behind him by his chain.

It would, undoubtedly, be an onerous journey back to Montreuil.