Title: He fell (But I was there to catch him)
Work ID: 47724709
Author: IneffableSoup_24601
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Enjolras/Grantaire (mentioned), Cosette Fauchevelent/Marius Pontemercy (Mentioned)
Additional Tags: Mention of Cosette - Freeform, Mention of Marius, Mention of Enjolras, Mention of Gavroche, Mention of Grantaire, Mentions are brief, Post-Seine, Eventual Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert Lives (Les Misérables), Hospitals, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder - PTSD, Valjean Saves Javert, Fluff, Jean Valjean has PTSD, Javert's Suicide (Les Misérables), Suicide Attempt, but like its brief and most of it is saving, this will be a soft fic i promise, Hurt/Comfort, Next chapters will have, (which i write tomorrow adhd permitting), Coming Out, Gay Panic, Gay, Mild identity crisis, Getting Together, Love Confessions, Boys In Love, Whump, Sickfic, Comfort, Nightmares, valjean will be ill but like not deathly ill, like enough that javert takes care of him, POV Jean Valjean
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 3/?

Summary:
Jean Valjean was having a hell - excuse the language - of a few days. As he's walking home, from getting one Marius Pontmercy to hospital, he hears a distressed voice, followed by a splash.
Javert needs saving. Again. Of course Valjean will help - it's just he didn't expect saving Javert to mean he ended up with a boyfriend.

Work text:



Mercredi, 20 Juin, 1832 - 2am



 

It had been 2 weeks since the barricade fell. Two weeks since Jean Valjean had watched many men die, two weeks since he had watched a little boy – no older than 12 – shot and killed. He was an older man now – 63 years old – and had seen a lot in his time, especially the horrors he was put through in the Bagne. At night, Valjean often dreamt of those days, and when he awoke in a cold sweat, heart pounding in his chest, he often thought – just for a moment – that he could feel those cold chains constricting him once more.

Even though he had only gone to protect Marius, the young man Cosette was now in love with, he did agree with the stance the revolutionaries had taken, even if their actions were rather violent. It was a shame to see it fall. There was one thing which had been even more of a shame to see fall though. I say fall, more specifically, it was more of a shame to see him jump. It was this fall, that haunted Valjean’s mind in the early hours of this day.

 

Javert.



Jeudi, 7 Juin, 1832 - 4am



 

How long had it been since Valjean slept? Nobody, not even Jean Valjean himself, could answer that question. While all the boys, God rest their souls, had slept poorly on the Barricade, he hadn’t got a moment’s sleep. After all, how could he? It wasn’t an issue of comfort: The Bagne had much worse sleeping conditions than even a barricade, but Marius needed protecting. While it was unlikely they would attack at night, they could have used the cover of darkness to their advantage; or at least that is what Valjean told himself. Putting that aside, he didn’t trust himself not to have nightmares, or talk about the Bagne as he slept.

Instead, he prayed, that God would bring Marius home. He had wished to pray for the others as well, but he knew that it was unlikely that that would be possible. Cosette, and by extension, Marius, had to come home. Now the young man was in hospital, it looked like he would. Had Valjean not witnessed many deaths, he would be pleased, however, the loss of several young lives – at this time particularly of the leader of the revolutionaries, and the leader’s lover. He had seen them embraced in their sleep as he wondered the barricade, praying – was playing on his mind.

It had taken some time, and being questioned as to why he was covered in what seemed to be sewage, to get Marius the proper care he needed, and so it was only now, in the early hours of the day after the fall, he was wandering home to see Cosette, and, though this was less important to him, his bed.

Quai de la Corse, as it is now known, is a road that runs west from the hospital, past the seine Marius lay in on the Ile de la Cite. It is the first of quite a few roads Valjean would have to take to return to 55 Rue Plumet, as he had lost his few Sous for a carriage to one M. Thénardier earlier in the evening. He would only need to be on it for a short time, before turning South. It would be an hours walk for a normal man, but it should have taken Valjean closer to 90 minutes: he was exhausted, after all.

North of the Quai de la Corse, is the Pont au Change bridge. Valjean only needed to pass it, it was the wrong direction to get to Rue Plumet, and would have taken him closer to the Louvre than to his home. However, it is where he heard it.

 

Paris was a bustling city of nearly 800,000 people, yet in the dead of night, it was often quiet, except for the occasional carriage returning home from a long trek, or some poor homeless soul, wandering in the darkness. This was not one of those nights. The city had changed a lot, over the last few decades of course, but that doesn’t mean that yet another revolt didn’t scar the city. The population reeled in terror at the death of the men – actually, not even men, they were mere boys who gave their lives for a better world – and that left the city silent. Not a soul dared wander the streets, not a soul dared move, not a soul dared to breathe. Apart from Jean Valjean, and one other man – though he didn’t know this.

That’s why the angry voice, accompanied with an occasional sob, and then a splash took him by surprise. Someone else was out tonight. That someone was in trouble.

Javert, however, was more than out of his home, he was out of hope. He was the man in trouble.

Valjean saw the splash of the figure land in the river from where he walked alongside, and when he realised what he had just witnessed, the walk – despite being a weary shuffle just moments before – broke into a run. It had been days since he slept, he was tired and uncoordinated, yet the adrenaline coursing through his veins into his very soul meant that it was only a matter of seconds before he had leapt over the wall, and into the cold Seine below.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Have you ever wondered why, in coastal regions, the sea is an asset to a community, despite the drab wet weather, and the constant floods it may bring? Water has a lot of odd properties, but it is also beautiful, and makes for idyllic scenery. It also brings in a lot of industry, in fishing and tourism, primarily. However, it is also a huge provider of leisure activities, especially in the summer, under the scorching sun. It takes a very long time for water to heat or cool, leading to the peculiar effect that the seas and rivers often feel coolest in the summer, and warmest in the winter. This makes it perfect to pass long summer days.

Right now, however, this was a problem. Icy water soaked Valjean’s clothes, and the cold set in deep within his body. It felt like he was in the arctic, like his bones might snap under the frozen fragility of ice. He gasped, desperately trying to keep his head out of the water, and despite a few splashes filling his mouth, he managed to keep the water out of his lungs. Everything inside Valjean wanted him to swim, to rescue the man who had splashed only a few moments prior, but when it came to that, he found himself paralysed, muscles nearly cramping from the ice.

A few seconds, crucial moments that could be the difference between a man’s life and death, passed before Valjean was able to swim, and despite the feeling of the sodden army uniform dragging him deep into the Seine below, and the pounding of his heart, barely warming his body now, in his chest, once he had started there was no stopping him swimming. As he reached the centre of the river, his memories started to become a blur.

The man, unconscious. He may as well ahev been dead already, inhaling that amount of water.

Flipping him over, and recognising Javert. Features cold, and even more emotionless than usual, lifeless even. His extremities white, tipped with blue.

Pulling him, praying for his survival, to the riverside.

Managing to get him onto dry land. Turning him on his side, and the rush of water that came from his face – places where that amount of water should not come from.

 

Once Javert was out of the water, he was out of danger from drowning. He was not, however, out of danger from death. He was freezing, who knew how much water he had already taken in? Both the men were frozen to the very core, yet Valjean shed his coat, and wrapped it around Javert. Of course, dry clothes would be better to warm him, yet Valjean didn’t have any, and it seemed better to use any layers he could.

Valjean knelt on the Seine’s riverbanks, Javert’s head turned to the left, just like the rest of him, but resting flat against the ground, and Valjean’s knees were just above him. One of Valjean’s hands was on Javert’s face, feeling his temperature, and though he wouldn’t admit it, caressing his cheek slightly – he did care about Javert, after all. He had known him for nearly 30 years. The other had been on his chest, feeling his heart beating slowly, but it was now rubbing his back, patting it, trying to coax any river water left out.

This may have been a tender moment, Javert lying by Valjean’s legs, Valjean tending to his injuries, however, given the imminent risk to Javert’s life, this wasn’t the case. To Valjean, time both felt impossibly fast, and yet stood to a halt. Had the risk been lower, Valjean might have felt his own body freezing, and his own safety come into question. For now, though, only one thought was in his mind, and that was to get Javert to the hospital. He had to get back to the hospital.

 

It has been established a very many times that Jean Valjean is unusually strong. Under normal circumstances, he could have carried – or dragged, if needs be – Javert to the hospital. Both exhaustion and the cold were getting to him though, and had substantially weakened him. No matter what he tried, he could not get Javert there. Not without help.

For the first time since leaving the hospital, he spoke. The silence in the Parisian streets was broken.

“Help!” He cried, “Please, someone, a man has fallen into the river!”

Nothing.

He turned to Javert, muttering a prayer.

“Lord, please, let him live. He needs to understand none of this… none of this at all, was his fault. Please, father, he is a good man, I forgive him. He… I’ve known him for so long now, I don’t know what I would do if he passed. I wouldn’t ask if...”As he spoke, Javert was sick – mainly seawater. It was lucky Valjean’s left leg was a few inches away, so he wasn’t soaked once again.

“Javert, it’s alright, it’s better out of you,” He comforted quietly, unsure if he could hear him.

He looked up to the houses, and cried out again

“Please, someone, help! A man’s life is in danger!”

A candlelight was now visible in a few windows, and Valjean kept shouting. It didn’t take long before 3 men joined him at the riverside. Javert would get the help he needed.

 

Javert was a larger man in height, and as such was heavier, especially with his soaked jacket weighing him down, but still, it only took two men to carry Javert. The third man, the smallest of the kind strangers, had insisted on helping Valjean. Unbeknownst to him, he looked awful: dark rings surrounded his bloodshot eyes, his skin was pale, fingers tinting blue from the cold. Both Valjean and Javert looked like they could drop and die at any moment.

The two men were ahead, racing Javert to the hospital in hopes that it wasn’t too late, however, the third man stayed behind, and wrapped an arm around Jean Valjean. They moved towards the hospital at their own pace. Valjean had said he had to get there, to ensure Javert was well, however, in this state, the younger man supporting him would have insisted Valjean was seen to by the doctors as well.

“Monsieur, what has happened?” He asked, noticing Valjean’s sluggishness, fatigue and quietness. It seemed better to keep him engaged.

“Javert… the man ahead, he fell,” Valjean lied, it was almost certain Javert had jumped, but suicide was illegal at this time, “I only heard the splash. I didn’t realise it was him until I jumped in,”“He is lucky to be alive, that is certain. How do you know him?”

“A friend,” Valjean would have continued the lie, but speaking was becoming increasingly difficult as the shock wore off.

The stranger noticed this, “My name is Augustin, monsieur, what’s yours?”

“Va- Fauchevelent. Ultime Fauchevelent” Normally his alias was easy to keep up, but Valjean nearly spoke his true name, his mind drained from the situation.

“Tell me about yours and Monsieur Javert’s friendship, please, monsieur,” He said, noticing “Ultime”’s apparent difficulty with speech, though this was him nearly giving his true identity.

“He… we met at his place of work… beginning of this century,” He said, speech slowly becoming more drained, “We haven’t always been friends, but… I’ve grown to care for him, only the Lord and my daughter are more cherished in my eyes,”

 

Truth be told, Valjean’s secretive nature meant he didn’t have anyone else, but it was true, Javert meant an awful lot to him, despite their past. He would do anything to see him well. Given this man was a stranger, and Valjean’s mind was not in it’s normal state, his guard had slipped as well, and for the first time, he had admitted he had affections for Javert.

“He must be a very good man if he is that special to you,” Augustin responded, trying to get Valjean to continue to speak.

“Very determined and honourable... and he is. I care for him like family... Tell me, do you have a wife, monsieur..? I have known him as long as some men know their wives.” Valjean’s words were a struggle to get out, and had he been mentally present, he wouldn’t have said that. He had never admitted this to himself. In fact, he had never admit he could feel that way about a man to himself.

That didn’t matter now, if Jean Valjean remembered those words when he was well, then it would cause him a crisis in his identity, yes, but for now, he had to be well.

At last, Valjean and Augustin reached the doors to the hospital. The cold and exhaustion finally caused Valjean’s body to give in, and he fainted. He didn’t know this, of course, as he was unconscious, but Valjean was brought in and admitted that night. Augustin, and the other men who came to his aid had informed the physicians of what they knew had occurred.

Valjean and Javert were to be kept to beds next to each other in the hospital, and since one of them, judging by the coat wrapped around Javert, was an officer in the army, so they were kept in a side room, where it was more private.

If Valjean was to have a crisis upon remembering the words before he collapsed, he would have this crisis stuck in a room, with Javert, the very man he had admitted a form of love for.

this was meant to be a sickfic of javert caring for a sick valjean (and a later part will be) but I accidentally turned it into a getting together series??? anyway gay starts tomorrow hopefully but i have severe adhd