Title: Papa and J----, August '34
Work ID: 47769874
Author: shadowsong26
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Backstory Cosette/Marius, Heavily Implied Valjean/Javert
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Post-Canon Fix-It, Post-Canon, Very Post-Canon, 200 Years Post-Canon, Crack Treated Seriously, all on-page characters are technically OCs, but cosette; marius; valjean; and javert are discussed as historical personalities, outsider pov, no beta we die like.....well everyone
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 4/?

Summary:
Euphrasie Pontmercy--known in the art world as La Jardinière--isn’t exactly a household name. Still, the sheer length of her active career (her work was first displayed and sold in 1839, and she left one last piece unfinished at her death in 1910) makes her interesting to people who actually study that century in art. But as far as the historical record is concerned, Jardinière seems to have sprung semi-fully-formed from the streets of Paris somewhere in the mid-late 1820s. Other than the fact that she was educated in a convent, essentially nothing is known about her parents or her childhood.Until now.
Or:
It is a truth universally acknowledged that a PhD student with no thesis topic must be in want of an undiscovered painting to go absolutely feral over.

Work text:

It all started on a blind date.

Which, I mean, when I tell people that’s how I met the love of my life, they assume I mean Phil. Don’t get me wrong, Phil is great, and I love having him in my life and have no intention of changing that any time soon. But he’s not what I’m talking about.

Phil was a friend of a friend of my roommate; I was working on finalizing my thesis topic for my PhD (art history, with a planned focus on the intersection of technological changes and shifts in the art world in the middle third of the nineteenth century). He worked in a bank, not at the university, which was probably for the best. Academia is a small world, and it can get super incestuous when ninety-five percent of the people you meet are, if not actually in your fairly small field, in something related.

So, Phil wasn’t an academic (although he had worked as a freelance translator while getting his CPA), and math (especially money math) has never exactly been my strong suit, but we found plenty of other things to talk about. A shared fondness for murder mysteries, the more ridiculous the better; a couple of fandoms in common; a similar sense of humor. And he was over the moon proud of his older sister, who was apparently making a major name for herself in the world of classical piano, so. You know. He clearly appreciated super-nerdy niche careers, even if he didn’t have one himself.

Besides, it was nice to get a break from going through all of the preliminary research I’d gathered, trying to find a thread to follow and spin into my actual thesis.

It was even nicer when the Agatha Christie movie we saw was better than we expected, and then we spent almost two hours at my favorite Middle Eastern place (best falafel in town) just talking, until they kicked us out at closing time.

Phil was sweet, and kind, and funny, and I’ve always been a sucker for boys with big blue eyes.

Naturally, we ended up back at his place.

He lived at home with his parents--which, no judgement; I’d probably still be living with mine if I hadn’t had to move halfway across the country for my PhD program--but they were out of town for the week, and I like to give my roommate a little more notice before asking for privacy.

His couch was also a hell of a lot nicer than mine.

We’d been getting into a nice rhythm, and then Phil had come up for air--and to strip his shirt the rest of the way off--when it caught my eye.

I’m still not sure what exactly drew my attention. The piece isn’t large; including the frame, it’s only a little bit bigger than a standard letter-sized piece of paper. A simple portrait of two men at a window; one seated, the other standing.

“Oh, hey, what’s that?” I asked.

“Huh?” Phil said, blinking a couple of times, then turning his head to see what I was looking at. “Uh…the painting? It’s…a painting? I don’t know, it’s been there for as long as I can remember.”

“Right,” I said, sitting half-propped-up on my elbows, still looking more at the painting than the (admittedly very pleasant) view of shirtless Phil. “…sorry. Uh. Art nerd brain activating.”

“…right,” he said, and sighed a little, but sat all the way up himself, climbing off me and pulling one of the couch cushions over onto his lap.

“Thanks. Sorry again. Can I take a closer look?”

“Go ahead,” he said.

I smiled at him and headed over to the other side of the room, leaving my own shirt behind.

Could be anywhere from the late 1820s to the 1840s, I guess, I thought. Men’s fashion didn’t provide as many clues as women’s fashion in that period. At least not to me--while I had done some research into fashion and textiles, if only because I was interested in the development of dyes and other pigments, my focus had always been more on painting.

My phone was on the coffee table, right where I’d dumped it when it started getting in the way; I picked it up. “Can I…?” I asked.

“Sure,” Phil said, running a hand through his hair.

“Great.” I took a quick picture of the painting on the wall--I knew a couple people who might have a better time dating it by the clothing than I would.


Right. So, I have at least a vague time period. What else?


The subjects weren’t young men; I’d guess both were somewhere between fifty and seventy or so. The seated man seemed like the older of the two, but that was hard to gauge even with a photograph. He had broad shoulders, a full beard; was wearing a fairly plain dark suit. First impression: quiet, steady, calm, strong. A vague melancholy, but not overwhelming. Just a general vibe.

The other man was positioned just to the side of and slightly behind the chair, standing absolutely perfectly straight--but not stiff; more like the kind of ingrained upright perfection you see in career military men. Impressive muttonchops, rather than a full beard. Everything about him said stern, severe; except for one hand, resting almost gently on the back of the chair.

It was definitely posed--most portraits before the Impressionists were anyway--but there was almost a sort of casual intimacy to it, anyway. What kind, I couldn’t say. But whoever these men were, they were close. One way or another.

“Do you know who the artist was?” I asked.

“Uh, my great-great-something grandmother, I think?” Phil said. He got up off the couch and wandered over to stand next to me. “Like I said, it’s been hanging there as long as I can remember, and I think it’s been in the family forever.”

“Right.”

With that in mind, it could have been an amateur piece; plenty of upper-class and bourgeois women and girls studied painting as just part of how to become an Accomplished Young Lady. But there was something familiar nagging at the corner of my mind. Something about the hand on the back of the chair, or the eyes, or…

If I could get a closer look, really get into the fine detail of brush strokes and other aspects of the composition, maybe it’d fall into place. But the style was definitely familiar, and not in the sense of ‘this was the work of a talented schoolgirl; I’ve seen half a dozen like it before.’

More specific than that.

“What was her name, do you know?”

“Family stories always call her Mémé Cosette,” he said. “But that was a nickname, I think. Her real name was…very French, but, well, that side of my family’s French so that’s, uh, not really surprising.” He frowned. “I know I know it, hang on.”

Well, worth a shot. “Maybe it’ll come to you in a minute,” I said. “Is this the original frame?”

“Far as I know,” he said. “Sorry, like I said, it’s been there forever. Just sort of…part of the living room.”

So, maybe. “Can I take it down? I’ll be careful, I promise.”

“Sure,” he said. “…Emilie? It started with an E, I’m absolutely sure.”

“Right,” I said, absently, focused on taking the wooden frame off the wall.

A simple thing, and definitely actual wood, not plastic; probably not brand new. So, it could have been original, or not too much later than the portrait. Or it could have been a decent frame from ten years ago. Once again, hard to say for sure without further study.

I flipped it over. There was a handwritten inscription on the back.


Papa et J----28 août ’34.


And the handwriting was--


Oh my God.


“Eugenie? No, that’s not--Euphrasie? Yeah, I think that’s it.”

I had always thought that, when people said their heart skipped a beat, it was a poetic exaggeration. But, hand to God, in that moment, mine did.

“Ari?” Phil asked. “You okay?”

“Euphrasie,” I said. “Euphrasie Pontmercy?”

“That…sounds right,” he said. “…wait, you know her? Uh, of her?”

I turned the painting back over, and--yeah, yes, absolutely, that was it. That was what I was seeing--the distinctive way she did detail work in her early period, particularly in the shading around the eyes and hands in her rare portraits. The things that show the most humanity, as one of my high school drawing teachers had put it. I’d still need a closer look, outside the frame, to be absolutely sure, but.

“I--yeah,” I said. “Yeah, I…I know her.”

And the inscription on the back--Papa et J----, 28 août ’34. Papa and J----, August 28, ‘34. 1834, obviously. And--Papa.


Holy fucking shit.


“Wait,” Phil said. “Was…was Mémé Cosette actually famous? Like, people study her?”

“She was pretty well known for a while, but mostly it’s the length of her career that makes her interesting,” I said. “Not like she was a major player in any of the art movements she was on the fringes of, but she adapted some of their techniques to her own style as time went on, and…yes. Yes, people study her.” I took a breath. “Is there…do you think there’s any chance your parents would let me borrow this? To do more detailed study and analysis, I mean. Maybe. Maybe write a paper?” Or a thesis?

“Probably,” he said. “I mean, you can always ask, and I don’t see any reason why they’d say no?”

“Great,” I said. “Uh. Just let me…” I took a couple more pictures with my phone--the portrait, the frame, the inscription--and then carefully, and hopefully without being too obviously reluctant, hung it back in its place on the wall. “…I’m sorry, Phil, I have to…”

“Yeah, of course,” he said. “Rain check?”

I blinked and--we’d had a good time, before I sort of ruined it, and he was very beautiful, standing there with his shirt off and those big blue eyes. “Definitely,” I said, leaning in to give him a very quick peck on the lips on my way to collect my shirt. “I’ll call you. For more than just the painting. Promise.”

He smiled, and. Oh, yeah. Definitely calling him back.

Later. In a few days.

First, though. That painting.

This chapter is admittedly a little infodumpy, but let’s be real, would this really be a Victor Hugo fanfic if I didn’t have at least one?

From: Wright, AriTo: McLean, EmmaThesis proposalSaturday, 1/24, 1:14 AM

Hi, Emma,

So, I may want to change direction. Pretty radically. Is it too late to do that?

Thanks!Ari

 

From: McLean, EmmaTo: Wright, AriRe: Thesis proposalMonday, 1/26, 8:32 AM

That depends. How big a change are we talking?

Emma McLean, PhDProfessor, 19th Century French Art

 

From: Wright, AriTo: McLean, EmmaRe: Thesis proposalMonday, 1/26, 9:54 AM

Well. Hypothetically. If I may have hypothetically found an early--mid-30s--Jardinière portrait. One of the subjects may or may not be identified as her father. That. Hypothetically.

Ari

 

From: McLean, EmmaTo: Wright, AriRe: Thesis proposalMonday, 1/26, 10:35 AM

Authentic? Show me the painting.

Emma McLean, PhDProfessor, 19th Century French Art

 

From: Wright, AriTo: McLean, EmmaRe: Thesis proposalMonday, 1/26, 10:38 AM

See attached photos. Taken with my phone sorry about the quality. Inscription looks like her tho doesn’t it?

Ari

Sent from my iPhone

 

From: McLean, EmmaTo: Wright, AriRe: Thesis proposalMonday, 1/26, 10:45 AM

How soon can you get it here for authentication

Emma McLean, PhDProfessor, 19th Century French Art

 

From: Wright, AriTo: McLean, EmmaRe: Thesis proposalMonday, 1/26, 10:47 AM

Owners are out of town, but expected back later today or tmrw, I’ll get in touch about borrowing it ASAP.

Sent from my iPhone

 

From: McLean, EmmaTo: Wright, AriRe: Thesis proposalMonday, 1/26, 11:02 AM

Do that. If it is what you think it is, absolutely. Write the thesis.

If you don’t, I will.

Emma McLean, PhDProfessor, 19th Century French Art

 

 

I spent most of that weekend, while I was waiting for Emma--my thesis advisor--to get back to me, pulling together everything I had on hand about La Jardinière and figuring out my next steps. I don’t think I slept for like forty hours.

Unfortunately, what I had on hand wasn’t all that much. I’d done some basic research into her--like I told Phil, the fact that her career lasted as long as it did made her interesting to me. My focus had more been on the relationship between technology and art (and not just the basic stuff, like the advent of photography, but things like changes in travel and communications technology, in available pigments, and so on), but a painter with a seventy-year career, including most of the period I was interested in? Definitely at least worth looking into.

Still, it had only been a basic overview, not much more than you’d find on her Wikipedia page.

Well, actually, it kind of was more than you’d find on her wiki page, which is pretty sparse. Just covering the basics, noting that she: was born around 1815; died September 18, 1910; was married to Marius Pontmercy, a lawyer and sometime radical; and was the mother of Thierry Pontmercy, a pioneer in the field of forensic photography, along with his four less-famous siblings. Also the fact that her work was first displayed and sold in 1839, and her last piece (Souvenir--inachevé) was left unfinished at her death; although her popularity peaked in the early-mid 1850s, she continued to be reasonably well-respected as an artist throughout her life. The entry also lists a couple of her other better-known works. And that’s about it.

To be fair, that isn’t all that surprising. Because the truth is, Euphrasie Pontmercy--known professionally as La Jardinière, and apparently to her family as Mémé Cosette--isn’t exactly a household name. Even as far as mid-19th-century/pre-Impressionist painters go. Some of that comes down to the way art is studied, and the way the various art movements of her century worked. Some of it is that she wasn’t a major player in any of those movements. And probably general background misogyny plays a role, too.

There’s also the fact that there is next to no information available about her early life. As far as the historical record is concerned, Jardinière seems to have sprung semi-fully-formed from the streets of Paris somewhere in the mid-to-late 1820s. Other than the fact that she was educated in a convent, essentially nothing is known about her parents or her childhood.

Until now.

Maybe.

Assuming the painting checks out.

But I wanted to have all my ducks in a row, so to speak, before I talked to Phil’s parents about borrowing the painting (and in case I needed more support to sell Emma on the idea). So, compiling what information I had, and making a list of things I’d need to dig more into.

Jardinière spent, as far as current research can tell, her entire life and career in Paris, apart from the eighteen months she and her husband spent in Dover in the 1860s (most likely because his politics got them into trouble), and the approximately two months in the early 1850s she spent in Calais without him (reasons unknown).

Her work is mostly landscapes--several paintings of gardens, appropriately enough, as well as various parts of Paris; the seascapes from her Dover period are particularly beautiful, even if fashions in the art world had generally turned away from landscapes in that period. There are also a few portraits, some commissioned and some apparently just of ordinary people in her life; and a series of works she referred to as memories (including that last, unfinished work), depicting places or events she had lived in or witnessed years before actually sitting down to paint them.

Some of her sketchbooks also survive, including one from Calais that has several pages missing. Most of her paintings are marked on the back with the subject and a date (generally assumed to be the date she completed the work), like the one in Phil’s living room was.

If you line up her paintings chronologically, you can see her style shifting a little, drawing in bits and pieces from new movements and artistic fashions while still remaining recognizably hers. Especially when she comes back to locations she’d already painted years before--which she did repeatedly--showing the way both she and her city have grown and changed over time.

Even more interesting, while not all of her personal correspondence is available, there are a few surviving letters she exchanged with notable artists, particularly in the last few decades of her life. There’s one letter she wrote to Toulouse-Lautrec, which was briefly quoted in a biography of him I read a few years back.

I made a note to try and get my hands on the whole text of that letter, among others, if I was really planning to do a deep dive into Jardinière’s life and work--even if it was from fifty-some years after the painting at the center of all this. I’d also need to find someone who could help me translate it, and any other papers I managed to gain access to. My French is decent enough, and I’d probably be fine communicating with French institutions and archivists in order to request access to their collections, but for something this important, I’d want someone way more fluent to help with the actual documentary evidence.

Next was a list of museums that had some of her work on display or in their collections; there was also an exhibit in Marseille that I wanted to look into--not Jardinière’s work, but ‘Bertillon and Pontmercy: The Men and Minds of Early Forensic Photography’ might include some relevant things from her son’s life and papers. Given that I’d almost certainly end up flying to France anyway, it would be stupid to skip that.

So. I had a game plan, or at least the beginnings of one. Start by reaching out to various archives, here and in France, possibly England as well; look closer at her work where I can find it, particularly her early work and the few portraits that are available--although the fact that her poetically-named final work was currently included in a post-Impressionist exhibit in Chicago definitely caught my eye. And then go to France, to look for other documentary evidence. Try to identify Papa and J-----, and, assuming I manage to do that, write about it. Fill in the gaps in a story that might not be interesting to everyone, but for the people who were interested, it mattered a hell of a lot.

All of this, of course, rested on gaining access to Phil’s parents’ painting, and proving it really was an 1834 Jardinière.

Hopefully he was right, and his parents would be easy to get on board.

But I sure as hell had to try.

Wednesday afternoon, as soon as the last class I was TAing let out, I headed back to Phil’s house. I’d spoken with his mother on the phone the night before, and she’d agreed to meet me at four. Foot in the door, at least. First hurdle cleared.

Traffic was shit, because of course it was on a day I needed things to run smoothly, and I got there about five minutes late.

The woman who answered the door when I knocked was a little bit shorter than me, with the same bright blue eyes Phil had. Too old to be his sister, so this must be his mom.

“Hi, I’m sorry I’m late,” I said. “I’m Ari Wright, we talked on the phone?”

“Of course,” she said, and smiled, stepping aside. “Please, come in, ah…?”

“Ari is fine,” I said, and followed her inside. “Thank you so much for agreeing to meet with me, Mrs. Riley.”

“Oh, please, Louise is fine,” she said. “Would you like some water, tea?”

“Uh, water would be great, thanks,” I said.

She left me in the living room, excusing herself to go into the kitchen to get it, which gave me another minute alone with the painting.

Which was just as ordinary-extraordinary as it had been on Friday night. Exactly like I remembered it.

To be fair, I’d spent probably way too many hours the past few days studying my shitty phone pictures of it, so.

“I have to admit,” Mrs. Riley--Louise--said, rejoining me and setting a pitcher of water and a couple of glasses on the table. “I was a little surprised when Phil told me one of his friends was interested in Mémé Cosette’s painting.”

I stepped away from the wall and sat in one of the armchairs--not the couch; that would have been Awkward at least in the back of my brain. “I saw it when I was over here with Phil the other day, and…well, it jumped out at me.”

“Right,” she said. “So, what exactly are you looking for here?”

“Well, I was hoping to get your permission to do a more thorough study of the piece,” I said, then hesitated. “…if I can start by asking you some questions? About the painting and its history, whatever you know about it. And recording, if that’s okay. Easier than taking notes.”

“That’s fine,” she said, picking up her glass and settling into one of the other chairs.

I took a sip from the other glass, then set my phone to record audio and put it on the middle of the coffee table. “I suppose I should start with...well, I’m not sure how much you’re aware of your ancestor’s career--Phil wasn’t, at least?”

Louise smiled. “I know who Mémé Cosette was, or at least what I was told about her,” she said. “Euphrasie Pontmercy, also known as La Jardinère. I always liked listening to the family stories.”

“What can you tell me about the painting?” I asked. Obviously, if I went forward, anything she told me would have to be backed up by other sources. Anecdotal family history had a funny way of getting tweaked or embellished over the years, especially when the relative in question was someone even moderately famous. “Phil told me it’s always been in your family, and she’s your…”

“Great-great…great grandmother, I think,” Louise said, taking a moment to count. “My grandmother’s grandfather was her son René.”

The youngest of the five children. Right.

“I’m not sure how exactly the painting ended up in my great-grandmother’s possession, as opposed to any of the other children or grandchildren, but I know she was the one who brought it to the States, when she emigrated from France in 1912.” She smiled wryly. “According to the story, they almost boarded Titanic at Cherbourg, but one or more of the children had the measles. Or possibly diphtheria, I’ve heard different things at different times.”

“Not something you’d normally think of as lucky,” I said.

“No, not really,” she agreed. “Like I said, that’s the story, and who knows if it’s true. But I do know that the painting came to my great-grandmother somehow, and she passed it on to my grandmother Marie-Celeste, who left it to me. Since I was the only one of her grandchildren who liked to listen to her stories.”

“Had she actually met La Jardinière?” I asked. It was possible--if they’d been planning to sail in 1912, and Jardinière had died in 1910…

“A few times,” Louise confirmed. “She was about six when Mémé Cosette died, but she remembered visiting her.”

Well, that was a pretty damn solid foundation for the painting’s provenance. Again, I’d have to back up the authentication in other ways, but this was looking more and more promising.

“What about the subjects?” I asked. “The men in the painting, I mean. It’s labeled as Papa and J. Do you know anything about them?”

“Only the stories,” she said. “She was adopted, did you know that? Mémé Cosette, I mean.”

That was interesting; adoption wasn’t a very common practice in the early nineteenth century, at least not in the United States or Great Britain, and most of what did happen was very much behind closed doors. I made a mental note to add the history of French adoption law to my research list. It was unlikely, but maybe I’d get lucky, and there would be some kind of record of the adoption somewhere. If I could track down exactly when and where it happened.

“No, I didn’t,” I said. “Unless there’s something in an obscure French biography I haven’t been able to find and muddle through, I don’t think anyone knows much of anything about her childhood. Which is one of the reasons this painting is so interesting. When did this happen? And where?”

“I don’t know where, exactly,” Louise said. “Some little town in Normandy, maybe? Somewhere in the north of France, I’m pretty sure. Again, according to the family stories. It was when she was around seven or eight, I think? Before that…I don’t know. My grandmother didn’t know, or if she did she never told me, but I think she had the impression that it wasn’t a very good situation. And then Mémé Cosette was adopted, so that’s where Papa came into her life.”

“Do you have a name for him?” I asked. “Her marriage license listed her maiden name as Fauchelevent, but was that his name, or from her birth parents…?”

“That I don’t know,” she said. “All I know is that she was adopted, and that she named her eldest son for her adoptive father.”

And Jardinière’s eldest son’s name was Jean, which was. Extremely, unhelpfully common.

“Do you know which of the men he is?” I asked. “In the painting, I mean.”

Louise got up and went to the wall to examine it. “I…think the bearded man. My grandmother obviously never met him, and I think her grandfather--René, I mean--was very young when he died, but that matches up with what she heard from her aunts and uncles, as she passed it on to me. He was a very private person, and supposedly very strong. One story--and I can’t say I believe it’s true--involved him physically carrying another man to safety for something like twelve hours after some kind of disaster.”

Which…well, Louise was right, that story didn’t seem all that credible. But the more general description, and the kind of man who would give rise to that sort of story, did match up with the impression the painting gave.

I stood up as well, leaving my glass on the coffee table, and joined her at the painting. “What about the other man? The mysterious J?”

“We’re back to a game of generational telephone on this one,” Louise said. “I know even less about him. But my grandmother said he was a close friend of the family, according to what Mémé Cosette told her when she asked once. That he and her--that is, Mémé Cosette’s--father lived together for the last decade or so of his life. Not sure which him she meant.”

…well, all right then.

My eye was, once again, drawn to J’s hand, resting on the back of the chair. And they lived together, maybe, for a decade or so.

Of course, that could mean a lot of different things. And, you know, it’s easy to see what you want to see, especially when there’s so little information to go on. Whatever their relationship was, though, I’d been right in my initial impression of intimacy. Whatever kind of intimacy it was.

“Right,” I said. “I think that’s a good baseline, at least for now, but I might have more questions later. And I…not that I’m saying I doubt your version of the story, or anything, but…”

“But if you want to actually research the painting, you need more proof than half-remembered family stories after two centuries of generational telephone,” Louise said, and smiled again. “It’s fine, I know how research works. I remember when my husband got his Master’s degree.”

“Yeah, exactly,” I said. “Thank you, for your understanding. Um, so, with your permission, I would like to borrow the painting for a few weeks. To authenticate it, and do a more detailed analysis of the technique and construction and so on, see what else I can learn from the actual physical piece.”

“Right,” Louise said, turning back to the painting again, thinking. “Just to study it, you said? And, obviously, write about your findings if you find anything worth writing about. But you won’t put the painting on display in a museum or anything?”

I shook my head. “Not unless you agree to it, no. I’d take photographs, to include with the paper, but the painting itself won’t go on display unless you allow it.”

“And when you cite it…I don’t know how it works, exactly, but you wouldn’t have to specifically name me?”

“No, I can just list it as being in a private collection.”

“Right,” she said. “…I have to admit, now that you’re here asking questions…I didn’t really think about it before. How many gaps there are in the story.”

“It’s funny how memory works sometimes,” I said. “Especially…well, like you said, when generational telephone gets involved.”

And it was…a weirdly appropriate thing to think about in context, since that was something Jardinière had come back to time and time again in her work. This idea of memory, and how it lines up with reality. How it changes. Those repeat paintings she’d made of the same locations in Paris over the years. The series of paintings of her own memories.

And, of course, her last painting. Souvenir--inachevé. Memory--unfinished.


Definitely need to get to Chicago to see it in person.


“True,” she said. “All right. Under those conditions--that the painting won’t be displayed, and that you’ll leave my name out of it, you have my permission to borrow it and do whatever tests or study you need for your research.”

“Thank you!” I said. “Thank you so much, this…I really appreciate all your help, Mrs.--Louise.”

“You’re welcome,” she said. “And I hope you’ll share whatever you find with me, before publishing?”

“Of course,” I said. “It’s your painting, your family history.”

“Good,” she said, and smiled again. “I hope you find what you’re looking for.”

“Me, too,” I said. “Me, too.”

Here we are with Chapter 4! It's been a while, hasn't it, lol. This chapter is mostly Logistical Stuff, but we get to see Phil again!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Authenticating the painting wasn’t really a matter of lab testing. Most chemical analysis couldn’t date a painting more specifically than within fifty years or so of when it was painted. Which of course we did anyway, and that proved it wasn’t a modern forgery, at least.

My research into the development of paints and pigments during the nineteenth century also proved the painting didn’t use any colors that weren’t available in the mid-1830s, but that wasn’t exactly conclusive, either. Just because something was available didn’t mean it was used in every painting, after all.

Which meant it came down to comparing technique, and the inscription on the back--most of Jardinière’s paintings had a signature as well, but some, including this one, did not. I didn’t have immediate access to any of her very early works, but there were two paintings in reasonably local collections that I was also able to borrow. The earlier of the two was a painting of a street from her Calais period; the other was from the 1890s, a memory-portrait of the artist herself and one of her granddaughters in their respective wedding dresses, comparing the poofiness of their sleeves. (I have to admit, I love an artist with a sense of humor.)

Still, they were physical paintings that were known to be Jardinière’s work. The next step involved many, many hours of looking at all three paintings in very close detail, with Emma overseeing and offering her experience to help with authentication. There weren’t any specific experts in Jardinière’s work, exactly (“Though after you finish this research, you’ll probably qualify as one,” she had pointed out), but the bulk of Emma’s research had been into pre-Impressionist French painters, so she knew what to look for.

“I think,” she said, at somewhere around eleven pm on the sixth day after we’d gotten access to Souvenir de soixante ans, “that we can say this is a genuine Jardinière painting. The inscriptions on all three match, just like you thought, and while her technique definitely evolved, you can see some of the same detail work you noticed around the hands and eyes in Soixante ans.”

“Yes,” I breathed, with a silent fist pump of victory. “Which means I get to go ahead with the rest of the work.”

“Yeah,” she said. “Any changes to the plan from the last time we talked?”

I shook my head. “I’ve put out feelers to that museum in Marseille, along with a couple other collections in France and one in Dover. Most of them were willing to work with me and grant access to at least some of the behind-the-scenes papers that weren’t on display. Dover wanted to hold off until the painting was authenticated, so I’ll reach out to them again…tomorrow, probably. After sleep. I still need to line up a translator, too.”

“That should be your next step, before you travel anywhere further than Chicago,” Emma said. “If you still want to look at Inachevé in person. Did you talk to my usual guy?”

“I did,” I said. “He said he wasn’t sure he’d have time for a project of this scale until summer, though. And while I can do at least rough translations myself…”

“You don’t want to spend six months going down the wrong road,” she said. “Fair enough.”

“I’m going to check with the department here, see if there’s anyone they recommend, and then look into other freelancers,” I said.

“At least you’re working with nineteenth-century French sources,” Emma said.

“True,” I said. “Helpfully common.” Unlike my ex-girlfriend, who’d had to wade through seventh-century Greek for her research.

“That can wait ‘til morning, too,” she said. “It’s been a long day, and you’ve gotten past the first major hurdle.”

“Yeah,” I said. “Thanks for your help on this one.”

“It’s what I’m here for,” she said, and smiled.

 

 

The next day was all logistics--my absolute favorite part of any project. Back and forth with Dover and the various French collections; reaching out to a few other translators who had been recommended to me; and the absolute best part: budgeting.

Ugh.

Still, progress had been made; I had most of the permissions I needed and had worked out at least some of how I was going to pay for flights and so on. Waiting to hear back from some of the possible translators, so that was still up in the air but at least the momentum from the night before--finally officially authenticating the painting--had carried forward.

And, best of all, the day ended with another date with Phil.

Our third, actually, not counting the one I’d accidentally derailed with art-nerd brain. I was very proud of myself for managing to keep things on track after that. I mean, obviously, both of us talked a little bit about work, but not enough to make the night all about that.

“So, how long do you think you’ll be out of town?” he asked, when we made it back to my place with ice cream.

“Hard to say,” I said. “Some of it depends on what I find. At least a few weeks, though. And I’m not leaving, like, right now, I still have to work out some logistical detail bullshit.”

“Hey, some of us like the logistical detail bullshit,” he said, grinning.

“Really?”

“No, not really, planning travel kind of sucks,” he admitted. “But other detail stuff can be fun.”

“Right, you’re a math guy.” I flicked his nose affectionately and he rolled his eyes.

“It’s satisfying when it all comes together right,” he said. “Different kind of satisfying from when I was translating to pay the bills, but that was kind of fun, too. It’s all solving puzzles, you know? Just different kinds.”

“I get that,” I said. “Even if number-puzzles never really drew me in.”

“Not for everyone,” he agreed. “…actually, though.”

“What?”

“You said you were still looking for a translator?”

“I am,” I said. “Why?”

“Just…I don’t know,” he said. “My other language is French, I’m not sure I told you that?”

“Uh…no, I don’t think you did,” I said, sitting up. “Wait, are you offering?”

“I mean,” he said, sitting up as well, facing me. “If it wouldn’t be…I don’t know, I don’t know what all the rules are? Since it’s my family’s history, and since we’re…is it too early to say dating?” He flushed a little, which was adorable.

“I don’t think so? It is your story as well. We’d need to put together a specific work contract and everything, but…wait, let me actually…” I reached over and grabbed my phone from the nightstand to send a quick email to Emma. If she didn’t know the actual answer, she’d know who to ask, at least.

“Right,” he said. “So…I guess let me know what she says? Because I’m. Uh. If it’s not against the rules or whatever, I’m interested in helping out.”

“Great,” I said. Then, because I definitely hadn’t forgotten the other question, “And…yeah, I think I would say we’re dating,” I added, leaning forward to give him a quick kiss.

“All right, then,” he said, with a smile, kissing me back, which put a pretty decisive end to any work talk for the evening.

Emma wasn’t going to get back to me before morning, anyway.

Fashion is ridiculous, and leg-of-mutton/gigot sleeves coming back into fashion sixty years later is something I find both hilarious and delightful XD

I did do some poking around into how one actually goes about authenticating a painting and from what I could tell, specifically dating a painting using Science/Chemistry is actually pretty difficult (as pointed out here). It was kind of a fun rabbit hole to go down, even if it didn't help me here very much, lol. (Some other things that Ari might have tried were looking into immigration records to verify provenance/back up Louise's story, but if I went into detail about that whole part of the process, we'd never get to identifying the painting's subjects sooooo jumping ahead a few weeks.)

Next chapter will have Ari finally actually tracking down some more answers in Europe, so that should be fun!

Thanks for stopping by! ~shadowsong