Title: The Curse of the Javerwolf
Work ID: 47850109
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Werewolf, Sort Of, puppy play but more literal, javert is so scary, fear the javerwolf, Post-Seine
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Summary:
Jean Valjean has no idea of the danger he is in! Luckily Javert knows full well how deadly he is when the full moon comes and so he can help them prepare.
Spoiler alert. Javert is baby

Work text:


“Are you sure?” Jean said, eyes serious, brows drawn with anxiety. Javert looked down at him,



“Yes, I’m sure. I know well-enough how dangerous I will be when the full moon comes. And remember: it will be a week before I am safe again. In the meantime, stay resilient, keep me chained in here and feed me from a distance if you must feed me.”


 


Jean made one last tug at the chains and manacles around Javert’s ankles and wrists. The feel of the cool, chapped metal made his skin crawl and he could not bear the thought of someone voluntarily chaining themselves, especially when he could barely comprehend that Javert’s story of turning into a slathering beast every full moon could be true. Still, the man had been madly insistent, despairing even, when Jean would not agree to lock him in the gardener's hut at the end of the garden. In the end he had submitted to do just that as an act of mercy and had hammered the big rings into the back wall and purchased some old boat chains and some manacles and a big lock for the door. Even barricading the windows to soothe Javert’s mind.



Tonight was the night of the full moon.



“Goodnight,” Jean said tipping his head to Javert as he swung the door closed,



“Good night,” Javert growled.







Valjean passed the night in a strange anxiety, not quite believing Javert’s story but fearing that it was true. There was no sound from the gardener’s shed and the garden remained quiet all night even when the full moon reached its zenith in the sky. When the soft pale light of the morning laid itself out over the garden, Valjean made up a small breakfast of two boiled eggs and a thick slice of ham and made his way down the end of the garden, jangling the keys to let Javert know that he was coming. He made a route around the gardener’s hut and found no damage and so he unlocked the door and cracked it open,



“Javert?”



Silence. Dust motes danced through the thin beam of light that had crept through the door,



“Javert?”



Silence.



Nervousness tightened its knots in Jean’s gut. He opened the door wider and the beam thickened spreading to reveal the coils of chain empty on the floor by the back wall,



“Javert!” Jean cried staggering into the room and peering about. The image appeared in his mind in a flash: the terrifying beast crouched in a dark corner about to leap upon him at any moment and set itself free! The moment never came. 


 


Instead, Jean went to the chains and lifted the manacles. They were still locked. He was baffled. Then he heard it: a quiet, high-pitched growl. Jean frowned and turned on the spot, eyes glancing about the room for the source of the sound. It continued and he followed it until, finally, he found himself crouching down to peer behind an overturned chair. There, in the dark corner where he had supposed he might find the beast was indeed the beast. It was about the size of a cat and curled over itself, with a big head and bulging black eyes and it was showing all of its tiny pin teeth and pink gums.



“Oh,” Jean said. He reached out his hand and the snarling increased and it snapped its teeth at him, lips curled. Still, its body was bundled into a ball, its little tail between its legs, flat against its belly. Fear, Jean knew that feeling. To be filled with rage and the desire for violence because you were afraid. He retrieved the breakfast plate and then lowered himself to rest against the wall. 



“Here you go,” he said, holding out a little shred of ham. The little creature just yapped and snarled, shaking all over with a powerful trembling that consumed its whole body. 



“It’s alright,” Jean murmured as he placed the shred of ham between them, “you take your time and eat when you are ready.”


 


As the sun rose in the sky it revealed more of the little thing. It appeared to be some kind of very small dog covered in ratty dark fur. It had stopped snarling now, although it occasionally showed him its teeth if he looked at it too long. After about half an hour, it dashed forward and gulped down the shred of ham. When it had returned to the wall Jean tossed it a slightly larger piece. It ran up again, grabbed it between its teeth and shook it like a rat and then gulped it down.



“You’re hungry little fellow?” Jean said, voice low and soothing. It stared at him, big black eyes wet and glinting. 


 


Jean made soothing sounds to it and fed it ham until the ham was gone. Then he broke the two eggs into chunks and fed the little creature these.



“Javert,” Jean murmured, and the little creatures ears, which were big and bat-like, perked up and it stared at him, “Javert,” he said and it’s head tilted.



“It is you,” Jean said smiling with genuine amusement. The little head tilted again from side to side. Jean pursed his lips to him and patted his lap. No, too far. Instead, Jean stretched out his arm and very gently scratched the little dog beneath its chin. After a little time it bumbled over and climbed on his lap curling into a ball.    


 


He scratched it gently on the top of its head and then lifted it into his arms as though it were a baby and held it against his chest. It shook all over like a leaf in a gale and he felt himself drawn to kiss it between its ears and murmur to it as he brought it inside. 


 


The little creature was in fact a little dog. It took several hours for it to come out from behind the sofa after he had brought it indoors. It took several hours more before its tail uncurled from beneath its belly and it was confident enough to begin sniffing around the house. Jean followed it at a distance offering it pieces of cooked chicken when it responded to ‘Javert’ and soon enough it was coming to his feet when called. 


 


“What a strange scenario this is Javert,” Jean murmured to it as he scratched its back. They were sitting together on the armchair. Javert was now so small that he could sit comfortably curled in Jean’s lap and he seemed to tremble with happiness as Jean fondled his ears and talked softly to him. 



“You’re not so terrifying a beast as you feared,” Jean said smiling.


 


When it came time to go to bed, he let Javert out to toilet and then carried him upstairs cradled against his chest and lay him down on the second pillow beside his head.



“There you are, my sweet little thing,” Jean cooed to him as Javert walked in a circle squashing down the pillow before he curled into a ball and closed his eyes. 


 


During the night, Javert got up and walked all over Jean’s chest and stomach before turning in a circle and curling up on his stomach. Jean scratched him and pet him gently and then went back to sleep.


 


Javert was much happier in the morning and jumped up and down when Jean awoke, tail high and wagging and little black eyes shining. He jumped down from the bed and ran around Jean’s feet in circles while he dressed. When they got to the top of the stairs Javert turned and jumped up on his back legs, his little feet patting Jean’s leg,



“You want up?” Jean said and Javert yapped, trembling with excitement. Jean leant down and lifted him into his arms kissing him on the top of his head and then the sides of his little face. Javert shivered with excitement, tail wagging furiously and Jean could not help but murmur,



“Ooh, little baby, ooh, little baby,” as Javert wiggled against his chest. 


 


He took him downstairs, let him out to toilet and watched as he sped up the garden snarling and yapping, chasing a cat with his tail stiff and high and his little chest puffed out. Jean chuckled and shook his head and then went and prepared his breakfast for him: small diced carrots, shredded chicken and shredded ham. Then he called out to Javert. Javert came speeding up the garden, dashed into the house, ran around the livingroom in a mad circle and then spun around again and again until his plate was put down and then he began snarling and tearing at his food.



“Oh, how fearsome,” Jean said, “Oh, what a big scary boy.”



Javert looked up at him, little black eyes twinkling and tilted his head left and right before smiling and returning to his breakfast. 


 


A week, Jean thought, so he carried Javert out with him in one hand and took him to a leatherworkers to get him a tiny little collar and leash made. Then he clipped it on him and took him out to the park to walk him around. It was the right decision for the moment he saw the ducks he tried to yank his way out of Jean’s grip to chase them, snarling and gnashing his teeth fiercely. Jean tutted and picked him up instead, cooing to him and kissing him as he snarled, eyes fixed on the enemy ducks. 


 


When they got home, Jean prepared him a lunch of duck pate and broccoli and he petted him while he ate. Then he sat in the garden with him playing and cuddling him.



“You are very cute,” he said as Javert’s little pin teeth gnawed on his thick calloused hands. 



“How are you so cute?” Jean said, “a big fierce man like you. Such a little baby.”



Javert titled his head left and right and then put his little feet up on Jean’s leg to be picked up and kissed and squeezed against his chest.


 


The week passed easily in this way: Javert sleeping on the bed, eating well, walking happily, playing, cuddling, and even learning tricks. He was a clever little thing and very engaged and clearly enjoyed the challenge and Jean used some old flower pots and brooms to make a little assault course which Javert adored and he spent much time leaping over the broomsticks and speeding through the maze of pots. When the week came to an end, Jean was quite heartbroken to be putting Javert back into the gardener’s hut.



“I’m sorry,” he murmured, as he began to close the door. Javert’s little head titled left and right, his big dark eyes wet and his bottom lip trembling.



“Oh,” Jean said, unable to bring himself to fully close the door, “Oh, come on then.” 



Javert smiled and dashed to the door and up into Jean’s arms to be kissed.


 


In this way Jean came to wake up with Javert, stretched out to his full six foot in length, naked, head lying on Jean’s chest. 


 


Jean lay perfectly still. He did not know what to do with himself. What could he do? How would Javert react to wake up in this way? What would he think? He clearly did not realise the type of creature he became on the full moon. He thought himself some kind of tremendous and terrifying monster and was completely blind to the reality. He decided to pretend to be asleep. 


 


He felt when Javert woke and remained as still as possible as Javert got up quickly and quietly and hurried out of the room to recover his clothes. Jean got up and dressed a little while after and headed downstairs as if he had noticed nothing at all. Javert was sitting in the kitchen, red-faced and with his head in his hands. He looked up with wild, dark eyes and laughed,



“I can’t believe it!” he said, “But why don’t I? Of course you would tame the beast.”



Jean failed to suppress his smile, going rosey cheeked.



“How?” Javert continued, “How? How did you survive?”



“Well,” Jean said shrugging helplessly, “you weren’t so bad. A little chicken and ham and you were quite happy.”



Javert blinked at him,



“You are mad or I am mad.”



He shook his head,



“All my life I have lived in fear of my transformation and now I find myself no better than a pet.”



Jean shrugged again, no longer able to hide his smile.



Javert shot him a suspicious look out of the corner of his eye,



“What was I like?” he murmured,



“Very fierce,” Jean said,



“Really?”



“Yes. Very protective of the house. Very well behaved. Eager to follow orders.”



Javert frowned as if he didn’t quite believe him, or as if he felt he was not receiving the full truth but could not figure out what part was untrue or missing from the story. 


 


How awkward it was for them. Javert looking at Valjean with suspicion and Valjean looking at Javert with the kind of affection reserved for little creatures. It all came to a head when one day Javert came in grinning, eyes narrowed in victory, holding up the tiny leash and leather collar,



“And what are these?” he said, “hmm? What device did you have made? Some kind of muzzle?”



“Oh Javert,” Jean said, “you can’t truly be so delusional.”



Javert cried out, face distorting in despair and he dashed the leash and collar to the ground, throwing himself over the chair in disbelief,



“Why? How? How could I be such a small and helpless creature!” 



“Oh,” Jean said, approaching him with the same gentleness as he had when he had first found him curled behind the chair, “Javert, it is not so bad.”



He patted him tenderly on the shoulder,



“My dear,” he said, “it is not so bad. You are very sweet.”



“I’m not sweet,” Javert groaned into his arms, face hidden,



“You are, but also very fearsome.”



Javert shook his head. Jean mindlessly began to scratch him behind his ear and Javert trembled. He looked up helplessly, eyes wet and wide and dark. Jean leant down and kissed him on the top of his head. Javert blinked at him, tilting his head to the side. Jean leant down and kissed him on his head again,



“Let’s go for a walk,” he said and Javert stood up and followed at his heel.  



“Good boy,” Jean murmured as he tied Javert’s cravat around his throat for him and put on his top hat. Javert stared at him, wide-eyed. Jean patted him on the cheek,



“Do you like walkies?” he said. Javert flushed,



“Yes,” he said quietly,



“Good boy,” Jean crooned, “If you are very good and walk nicely and do not despair too much, I will buy you an ice cream.”



Javert blushed and nodded, and they went out arm in arm- man and dog- for a long, tranquil walk in the park. The first of many.  









(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



The brain of the Javerwolf was very small.  It did not think of future or past, it did not think of things that would happen or plans that needed to be made. It woke up every morning and thought two things: My Beloved loves me! And I love my Beloved! And it did not need to think of anything more.  


 


Every day it did the same things and it was absolutely delighted by them. First of all, it awoke to the sound of its Beloved’s heartbeat, this whipped away any bad dreams it had. The Javerwolf’s very small brain knew many many things but could not process very many of them at once, consequently, although it often had bad dreams the moment it awoke they were forgotten. It jumped up and furiously kissed its Beloved, half because of its excitement and delight and half to remind its Beloved who they belonged to. They started their day with kissing and cuddling and then the Javerwolf played while its Beloved put on their clothes. 


 


The Javerwolf knew many words but could not understand most of them in a meaningful way; the only words that its little brain prioritised were as follows:



Javert



Baby



Walkies



Kissies



Uppies



Breakfast



Bed-time



Sausage



Chicken



Beef



Bacon



Lamb



Toilet


 


And: I love you.


 


These were the only words the Javerwolf needed to know. They were the only words he needed to have complete and utter peace with his Beloved. Oh, how alike they were in every way! They slept in the same bed, ate the same breakfast, the same lunch, the same dinner, both enjoyed the garden, both loved their routine and regular lives, both loved more than anything to kiss and cuddle, and whenever the Javerwolf was ever considering going on a walk by God! did his Beloved always seem to know! 


 


This perfect partnership both knew their roles just as well as they knew each other’s wishes. The Beloved kept the den clean and tidy and supplied the Javerwolf with his food, and with all the love and affection his little heart could take without bursting. In return, the Javerwolf guarded his Beloved with his very life. Oh yes, if some murderer had burst into that house the Javerwolf would have savaged it, even at the cost of his own existence. 


 


When his Beloved was in the garden, the Javerwolf made his check of the perimeter and then sat and kept his eye on his territory, chasing off and scaring away any intruders. He helped with the garden of course; once everything was safe. He carried his Beloved’s gardening gloves, dug holes for seeds to be planted, and even sometimes dragged the hand trowel around when needed. When he was not required to watch over his Beloved, he gathered gifts for him: a rat he caught and killed, a stunted dirty carrot he had dug out of the garden, a sock that had fallen from the washing line, a large bug still alive. All of these were rewarded with shock and then delight and inevitably by kissing and fondling and even sometimes a little meaty-treat. When the Javerwolf was feeling distinctly romantic he might even gift his Beloved the last piece of sausage or chicken from his dinner plate. This was how much he adored his paramour and what a devoted lover he made. In the evenings they finished their day with kissing and cuddling by the fire and then in bed, and every night the Javerwolf went to bed with a smile.


 


Even the things the Javerwolf feared in life were eased away by the presence of his Beloved. For some reason beyond his understanding the Javerwolf was afraid of water. He could not bathe alone and when it rained he trembled and trembled and tucked his tail against his stomach. But when his Beloved climbed into the bath and held the Javerwolf tucked against his chest and oh so gently poured the water over him and massaged the soap into his fur, well the Javerwolf felt his little head grow heavy and his eyes close, and he just sighed with contentment. He even felt brave enough, with his Beloved’s hands wrapped around his little torso, to paddle his feet in the water a little. When it rained his beloved lit and stoked the fire and tucked the Javerwolf inside his shirt, or lay under the bedcovers with him and spoke softly to him and kissed him until all his fears disappeared. 


 


What a perfect life these two had, and best of all for the Javerwolf it was perpetual for when he returned to his human form he was completely unaware of it and awoke the next time with the same enthusiasm and contentment in his heart as he had gone to sleep with.


 


These little pools of simplicity made life with Javert far easier than Jean Valjean sometimes felt he deserved. The first two times that Javert awoke naked on Jean Valjean’s chest he crept away filled with shame. The third time he touched Jean’s chest gently and whispered,



“Do you want this?”



Jean, truthfully did not know what he wanted, but he said,



“Yes.”



And Javert leant down and kissed him.


 


Kissing human Javert was very different to kissing the little dog and yet it was exactly the same: just as much enthusiasm and just as much tongue. Javert lacked the easy-going mindset of his canine familiar. He spent far more time brooding, sitting hunched, arms crossed, scowling at nothing. It seemed he spent half his time fighting with himself and half his time fighting Jean. He was difficult, argumentative, stubborn, and often highly anxious. Yet he too could be calmed by a gentle touch, by a scratch beneath the chin or behind the ear. Yet he too sighed with contentment when he lay his head on Jean’s chest. 


 


“Do you like him more?” Javert whispered one night, head tucked beneath Jean’s chin,



“Who?” Jean murmured half asleep,



“The little dog.”



Jean grunted and blinked his tacky eyes,



“What?”



“Do you prefer him to me? Is he easier? Is he more affectionate?”



“Yes,” Jean said, and he felt Javert tense against him before he continued, “he is easier and I would say more forward with his affection. But does that make me like him more?”



“That’s what I’m asking!” Javert growled.



Jean chuckled and laid his hand upon his dog’s head and gently pet his coarse black hair,



“No, my love, I do not prefer him.”



Javert trembled against him,



“Do you mean that?” he whispered,



“I love you,” Jean said, “and you and he are one of the same. When I look at him I look at you and love you, and when I look at you I see him and love him.”



Javert tilted his head to look up at him and Jean tucked his chin to press a kiss to the impressive forehead.



“That’s a non-answer,” Javert grumbled, nestling his head back into the nest of chest hair he’d made for himself. Jean chuckled again.



“You’re a fence-sitter, Jean Valjean,” Javert said,



“And you are terribly, chronically jealous, my love.”      



“Yes, well,” Javert said, “You don’t have to share me with anyone.”



Jean wrapped his arms around him and squeezed,



“And I will never have to. A dog only ever has one master.”


Don't worry, I'll get back to Monsieur's Dog now!


“Javert,” Jean says, “my love,” as he cards his fingers through Javert’s now quite greasy hair. Javert grunts, too focussed on the horrible pile of paperwork he has brought home with him out of sheer necessity- that is, the necessity of Jean’s company. Jean’s fingers begin to scratch over his scalp, soothing long scrapes of blunt nails through his hair. He grunts again. 



“My love,” Jean murmurs, pressing a kiss beneath Javert’s ear, his hands moving down to massage the back of Javert’s neck.



“I’m almost finished for the night,” Javert grunts.



“Oh no, no, keep working, my love.”



Javert’s bottom lip somehow juts out further, his brow drawing impossibly deeper. He breaks eye contact with his papers and twists in his chair as Jean’s hands slide into his open shirt and begin to scratch circles on his chest,



“What do you want?” he says, “What are you warming me up for?”



“Nothing!” Jean cries, seemingly trying to duck behind Javert and out of his line of sight. Javert curls his lip up over his teeth in a growl,



“You’re petting me,” he says, “you’re petting me. You butter me up by petting me.”



“I pet you because I love you.”



“You’re being evasive,” he growls,



“It’s nothing, finish your work. I’m distracting you.”



Javert grabs his arm before he can flee,



“You want me to go to a party?”



“No,”



“You want to host a party here? God forbid, but your daughter might request it. Unlikely.”



“No,”



“You have some kind of news you are avoiding imparting. It must be something about your daughter, you have no other friends.”



Jean pouts at that, although it is true.



Javert’s frown deepens,



“Jean… it could not be: she is with child and you are worried I will shy away from you when you are consumed with a grandchild? I would never.”



“No,” Jean says sadly, great shoulders sagging, “Not this time.”



Javert rises at that to draw him into his arms, brushing kisses over his beloved’s grand forehead,



“My dear, I didn’t know. Forgive me. I’ve been wrapped up in work-”



“It’s alright,” Jean says, “she barely knew herself. But she is heartbroken I know, she says it is God’s will but… it’s not that.”



“What then?” Javert urges, “you’re frightening me.”



“She is coming to visit tomorrow-”



“That is fine!”



“And she has bought a dog.”



Javert stiffens.



“Worse,” Jean sighs, “it is a puppy.”


 


It’s not really Javert’s issue for tomorrow he won’t be here. But for some reason Jean is of the belief that whatever he tells Javert carries over into the wolf, making it easier for him to understand when Jean catches him up in his arms and makes him sit and squats down to say seriously,



“Now, you must be very good today. No biting. Cosette will be coming and she is bringing Marius. No biting. My love-”



He is interrupted by a fish-stinking tongue trying to make its way into his mouth and he collects up the little dog again and steps him back,



“Sit. And they are bringing a dog.”



Javert’s head tilts. He seems to be calm but curious and some part of Jean un-tenses before the little black lip curls back to reveal its mouthful of needle teeth and the low high-pitched rumble begins in the surprisingly barrel-shaped chest. He really has grown quite round, Javert. Not fat, never fat, Jean insists, but round and dense. 



“Now,” Jean says seriously, “I know you will not want to play with it. I understand that; you are a grown man. But, I need you to please be hospitable and gentlemanly. You understand?”



Javert does not stop snarling,



“Oh, stop it now! Your territory is infringed but not threatened. Don’t be foolish. You’re behaving like a nasty little animal and not the fine upstanding man you are.”



Javert pouts, his bulging eyes glinting.



“I only need you to be patient,” Jean says, “if he aggravates or bores you come to me and I will pick you up. You trust me.”



The bottom lip quivers but the little dog only turns, and with his ratty little tail down, he jumps up on the velvet sofa and curls into a ball, looking very dour. Jean sighs. 


 


He’s not fast enough to reach the door before Javert. His leg is worse than ever and the little dog almost trips him in the mad rush to get to the door. Luckily, he can’t open it so he merely stands inside barking and howling and jumping up and down. Jean scoops him up, puts him a few steps back and waggles a firm finger at him:



“Sit.”



Javert pouts but sits. Jean opens the door and Cosette wraps him in her arms, the blue puffy sleeves of her dress blocking out any vision,



“My darling!” he cries into the fabric, spitting it out of his mouth,



“Papa!”



“How are you?” He asks as he draws back, shooting a quick glance to make sure Javert is still seated.



“Well,” she says, he eyes saying differently. He kisses her on each cheek.



“I hear you have a new member of the family?”



“Yes!” she says, brightening, “I know how terribly protective Wolf is so have had Marius stay back and hold onto Bertie.”



“Bertie,” Jean says, grimacing a smile and glancing nervously down at Javert who is scowling, top lip quivering.


 


His daughter steps aside and Marius raises a hand in greeting. Jean waves back. In the young man’s arms is a shivering mass of black fur, wriggling with the eagerness to get down.



“Well, Wolf seems very calm,” Cosette says, “Perhaps we should let them meet?” 



Jean’s smile is now a case of rigor mortis. His eyes meet Javert’s and the little dog stands and toddles to stand in between his feet, tail high. 


 


Marius puts down the furball and it darts up the path towards what it no doubt believes is another dog before it freezes entirely. Javert smiles. The little dog yelps and squeals and turns on the spot and leaps up at Marius’s legs. He can’t catch it up fast enough and even in his arms it tries to scrabble over his shoulder.



“Oh!” Cosette cries, “he’s not normally this shy!”



“Well,” Jean sighs, smiling gratefully down at his little beast, “Wolf can be quite intimidating. Why don’t you come in and we can sit in the garden and take some tea? Perhaps he will calm down.”


 


“I so wanted them to be friends,” Cosette sighs, shoulders sagging, as they head into the garden. 



Javert walks ahead, tail high and wagging, trotting bolschey, and Marius trails at the back clinging to his screaming puppy, wincing. 



“I know,” Jean says, “but we can’t control who we care to have for company.”



“I know you only care for Wolf while his owner is away but it would have been lovely for them to play together.”



“Well,” Marius pipes up, “perhaps it’s not all bad: I wouldn’t want our Bertie to learn to bite me.”



Jean shoots him a frown over his shoulder,



“Wolf does not bite.”



“Papa,” Cosette says, placing a hand on his arm as they seat themselves, “he has bitten Marius three times.”



Jean splutters a wordless reply and Javert, clearly quite proud of the fact he has bitten Marius, puts his feets up on Jean’s legs to urge him to lift him into his lap. Jean scoops him up and Javert lays himself on his back, his head and shoulders propped up on Jean’s stomach and his legs splayed. He looks Marius dead in the eyes and smiles. Marius grimaces. Jean’s hands stroke the little werewolf’s bald belly, scratching through the grey straggly hair of his chest, as he continues,



“It’s only that he is not fond of Marius. He doesn’t make an effort with my little fellow.”



Marius frowns but Cosette interjects,



“Now, Papa, that is unfair. He did at first and then Wolf bit him.”



“He has his reasons,” Jean sulks.



“Marius,” Cosette smiles at her husband, “Hand me Bertie and make us some tea, my love?”



“Yes dear,” he replies, placing the little shivering dog in her hands. 



Bertie, it seems, has accepted his fate and stopped trying to run, curling into a terrified ball.



“Oh, Papa,” Cosette continues, stroking the puppies ears, “Isn’t he lovely? He’s a cocker spaniel. In truth, Marius didn’t want a dog. I’m afraid Wolf has left such and impression on him but Bertie really isn’t like Wolf. I mean that kindly.”



“I understand,” Jean says, “he is not The People’s dog. He is very selective about the compay he keeps.”



Javert’s smile widens. 



 “You know what has been fascinating?” Cosette continues, calming the puppy with a natural ease, “How many things I have noticed different about Bertie. I have never had a dog before and so I have had to get used to Wolf. Since I have had Bertie I have noticed so many differences between them! For example: Wolf has a belly button whereas Bertie only has a little swirly mark, and Bertie has his nipples on his belly and he seems to have quite a few. They’re like little chocolate dots! But Wolf only seems to have two and they’re on his chest. Isn’t that strange? I wonder which of them is the odd one out? Or do you think it is a breed difference.”



“Oh,” Jeans says, rubbing circles around Javert’s belly button, “I think it’s probably a breed difference.”



Marius appears through a window and Javert snarls, saliva dribbling over his bottom lip. The puppy buries its face in Cosette’s corset.



“Oh Marius, darling!” She cries, “thank you for bringing the tea.”



He hovers in the doorway.



“Come,” she says, “Come, Papa won’t let Wolf bite you!”



“Again,” Marius adds doubtfully. 


 


He brings the tea tray and places it on the table, darting to put the table between him and Javert as quickly as possible.



“Here,” Cosette says, handing Bertie over to his father, “I’ll play mother.”



Javert maintains eye contact with Marius, his mouth full of sharp yellow teeth on show, then he darts his head down to loudly lick his own penis. Marius grimaces.



“Stop that,” Jean whispers, tugging at the loose skin on the back of Javert’s neck. Javert stops, uncurls and leans back to catch Jean in the most adoring and adorable smile he can and Jean purses his lips and tickles his ears for him.  


 


Cosette dishes out the tea and cake while Marius juggles the puppy that is trying to climb back into her lap. Javert splays his legs to give his guests an intimidating view and sighs, his round bald belly heaving with it. Jean manages two small forkfuls of cream and strawberry cake before Javert is climbing to put his hands on the table and is taking chunks out of the cake slice, cream all around his mouth. Jean tuts and wipes his mouth and little black nose with his napkin. Javert takes loud schlorps of Jean’s tea as Cosette continues,



“The breeder was very nice. You see she is a friend of Marius’ grandfather, well, acquaintance perhaps- you know how he is it seems everyone he has ever met is his friend or his nemesis!” she laughs. Marius continues to squint-grimace at Javert as the little dog gorges himself on cake and drinks Jean’s tea down to the bottom of the cup.



“So he’s quite a gentleman really,” Cosette continues, “he’s grown up in a big house in the country and now he has come to live with us. We’re hoping that…” she glances at her husband and he meets her eye and smiles tenderly, “that when God decides it is our time he will make a wonderful companion for our child.”



Jean sighs, 



“Yes,” he smiles, “that would be wonderful.”



Javert jumps up and licks his mouth and nose and he splutters and pushes him down, “Enough of that!”



Javert scowls, immediately jumps down from his lap and circles the table, heading towards Marius’ trouser leg,



“Don’t,” Jean warns him and he stops, shoots Jean an aggravated look and then toddles back over to seat himself with a huff by Jean’s foot. 



Marius untenses. 



“I’m sorry,” Jean sighs, “I don’t know what has gotten into him today.”



(He is acting no different to usual.) 



“It’s probably Bertie,” Cossette says, “I know he is terribly jealous.”



“Oh, dreadfully.”



“Oh,” Cosette sighs, “I wish you could hold Bertie but I know how Wolf would be upset.”



“Well,” Jean said, steeling himself, “he is not my master!”



He held out his arms,



“Hand me the little fellow.”



Marius shot his wife a doubtful glance but she handed over the curled up ball of fear to Jean. He clutched it to his chest where it shivered, eyes locked on Javert who sat by his feet snarling and shaking with rage. Jean rubbed the puppy’s ear,



“Oh, he’s very soft. J-Wolf is… well he’s not tremendously furry. It’s a very different experience.”



“Isn’t he lovely!” gushed Cosette, “His ears are like the finest silk! He’s so sweet natured too! Although you haven’t got to see it today. I wish I knew why he was so afraid of dear Wolf!”



“I know why,” Marius muttered before sucking in his lips. 


 


Javert jumped up on his back feet and scratched on Jean’s leg. When the puppy wasn’t immediately discarded he span in an angry circle three times. When even that was not enough he darted indoors. 



“He’s throwing a tantrum,” Jean said very seriously, “but he will get over it. He is a grown man and he can’t have me all to himself all of the time.”



“Papa,” Cosette said smiling, “You speak so humorously of Wolf: as if he were a real little gentleman living in your house. Oh, how sweet you look holding Bertie. Look! He’s licking your nose! That’s wonderful! I wish I could capture this picture forever. Oh, here is Wolf.”



Jean glanced down at his jilted lover and paled. The little demon had brought out a slipper. He met Jean’s eyes and smiled.



“Don’t,” Jean rumbled, “don’t you dare.”



Javert’s smile only widened as he assumed position.



“I am so sorry,” Jean said quickly, pushing the puppy back into his daughter's arms, “I-forgive me but I think I have an appointment to make-”


 


But he couldn’t get them out of the house fast enough, not before the aggressive slipper thrusting had begun and Cosette was laughing and covering her eyes and Marius was turning green. 



“I am so sorry,” Jean continued, ushering them up and inside the house towards the front door, “I am so sorry, you should not have had to see that.”



“Oh Papa he’s so funny! It’s his nasty little protest!”



“He’s a little pervert,” Marius mutters as Jean gives him particularly hard shove out of the front door, “Don’t you think he looks like a little naked man?” he adds sotto-voce to his wife as she kisses her father goodbye, face red with amusement. 



Jean’s face is red with shame.



“I’m so sorry,” he mutters again, and Cosette only smiles at him and says,



“We’ll see you soon, Papa,” and leads her husband back up the path to the gate.


 


As soon as they’d gone Jean slams the door shut and stalks into the garden where Javert is standing proudly over the debauched slipper.



“How many times have I told you!” Jean booms, waving his angry finger again, “No slipper when we have company!”



Javert pouts. 



“No,” Jean says, remaining firm, “You did that out of spite!”



Javert’s eyes grow big and wet, glinting in the sunlight. His bottom lip quivers.



“No,” Jean says sternly, crossing his arms over his chest, “I am very unimpressed with you. I have spoken to you at great length about your jealousy turning to possessiveness. I don’t appreciate the abusing of my slipper but I tolerate it because I know it comes from a place of love, but that- that was not love. I do not belong to you and I won’t have you asserting I do.”



Javert dips his head, tail between his legs and grabs the slipper with his teeth dragging it back into the house,



“Yes, tidy up after yourself,” Jean says, “you owe me that.”



 



It’s hard to remain angry at Javert. Especially when he’s lying curled on Jean’s lap sighing. Jean’s hands fondle his ears and a thought occurs to him that has him grinning down at the little creature curled in his lap.



“You know,” Jean says, and the little dog perks its head and tilts it in interest, “I shall have a wonderful time recounting this story to you when you change back.”



And Javert, completely ignorant, smiles. 
