Title: eyes wide shut unopened
Work ID: 49043080
Author: tigerlilycorinne
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy (background)
Additional Tags: Blind Javert, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Post-Seine, AU-gust | August Writing Challenge, Sightless, Alternate Universe - Everyone Lives/Nobody Dies, POV Javert (Les Misérables), Healing and growth and all of that, Just your typical Post-Seine fic, non-traditional narrative, pining javert
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 8/8

Summary:
Javert tries to open his eyes, but he only manages to crack them a sliver. They sting and through the pain, he can only see milky lights and darks. “Why?” he rasps, ignoring Valjean’s question. He wants to know why he’s alive.
“I saw you jump,” Valjean’s voice says, as if it’s that simple.
Maybe, to him, it is.
Valjean pulls Javert from the river. You know how it goes.

Work text:

One: 

His last thoughts were of his inability to live life in the face of the moral contradiction that was Jean Valjean. Perhaps, more truthfully, Javert’s inability to understand himself in the face of Jean Valjean, the convict saint. 

Two: 

Taking that last step off the parapet and the lurch in his stomach as his weight tipped and the wind whistled in his ears. 

Three: 

The painful sting of his body crashing into the filthy, fast-moving currents of the Seine, as if every inch of his skin had been slapped, hard and sharp.

Four: 

Opening his eyes into the murky water and the instant fiery pain; opening his mouth instinctively to breathe and tasting the gritty river on his tongue, airless and endless.

Five: 

Thrashing, unthinking, as the ruthless current folded him under, and the faint, nearly-imagined sensation of fingers closing around his wrist. 

Things that he does not remember: 

Getting pulled out, although he must’ve been. For even if the Seine had been merciful enough to wash him up on its dirty banks, it would have been far too late for Javert to still be breathing evenly, as he is now.

Oh my goodness, I forgot entirely about posting this. Sometimes I would remember and it would be the middle of the week, and I like to post on weekends, so I'd wait—and then I'd forget when the weekend rolled around!! Anyway, so sorry for the delay... here we are, finally.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


One: 

His own breathing. 

That’s the first thing he notices when he comes to: he is still breathing. He’s breathing far more easily than he’d have expected for someone who took a dive into the Seine, as if someone has taken the trouble to clear out his lungs for him, which is an unexpected act of kindness. In this world, full of cruel, careless, and stupid people, someone who’d do more than drag his body ashore, loot it for the coins in his pockets and the rings on his fingers—if he had any, which he doesn’t—and leave him there seems rare. And yet, someone has. Who? 

Javert attempts to clear his throat, intending to call out for anyone around, to better understand where he is, but a burning sensation erupts in his lungs when he draws air quickly. He turns on his side, hacking roughly as the feeling of fire spreads. 

Two: 

A voice saying “Inspector?” after his coughing fit. A voice that, for a moment, he doesn’t recognise. It’s not that this man’s voice doesn’t live in his head, day in and day out, deep and soft with a gentle drag, like a well-loved blanket that’s beginning to fray, but that Javert so little expects to hear such a voice that it takes him a moment to place it. 

Jean Valjean. 

The sound of that voice makes Javert’s heart race against his ribcage: panic, fear, anger, frustration, confusion, shame. His mind whirls with of all the people and of course, who else. What if he takes his revenge? and if he was going to, he would’ve taken his chance already. 

“You’ve woken,” the voice says, now from somewhere beside his bed—or perhaps couch. Valjean speaks gently and firmly, as if tending to an invalid, he has presumably pulled from the Seine is something he does regularly and has a practiced hand in. Perhaps he does, Javert wouldn’t be surprised. He suspects that very little can surprise him now, especially in regards to Jean Valjean. “How are you feeling?”

Javert tries to open his eyes, but he only manages to crack them a sliver. They sting and through the pain, he can only see milky lights and darks. He lets them fall shut again. He turns his head towards the sound of Valjean’s voice, hair rustling on the pillow. “Why?” he rasps, ignoring Valjean’s question. This matters more than what he’s feeling—which is thirsty, aching, sick, and lost. 

He wants to know why he’s alive.

“I saw you jump,” Valjean’s voice says, as if it’s that simple. 

Maybe, to him, it is. 

Three: 

The boiling of water, clear but far away, as if Javert is hearing it through an open doorway. 

That has become the sound that wakes Javert every morning, and invariably, fifteen or twenty minutes later, Valjean’s rough hands give him a hot cup of tea, which warms Javert’s face with its steam as he raises it to his lips. 

He cannot even tell what time of day he wakes, for his vision has not returned and he can’t bring himself to ask Valjean. All he knows is that it seems to be a routine for Valjean, so whatever time he wakes, it is the same time every day. Without sight and without anything to do but sit, think, and wait for his next meal or for Valjean to walk him to the latrine again, the minutes could be hours or the hours could be minutes; time becomes inconsequential and unreal. 

He marks the time only by how often Valjean comes again, with gentle questions about how he’s feeling and what he might like for dinner, questions which Javert invariably answers with a terse, “Fine,” and “Whatever you have.”

“You’re comfortable?” Valjean asks.

“Yes,” Javert says shortly. Despite the swelling heat of the summer, Valjean has given him lots of tea and soup to help his voice recover. Being cared for by Valjean like this, so inexplicably and so well, leaves a bitter taste in his mouth that no tea can wash away. A rotten taste, like the water of the Seine. The taste of a life debt and of what might be an irreconcilable wrong. The worst part is Javert doesn’t even know if chasing Valjean all of these years has been a mistake. He would prefer to be wrong, he thinks, than to not know at all which way is up. 

Javert hears the chair creek and the rustle of fabric as Valjean shifts on his chair. “And do you need anything?” comes Valjean’s voice.

“No.” There is a pause, in which Javert can hear Valjean’s hope that he might say more. Valjean can’t give him anything he needs: clarity, purpose, an independent life. Though he wants to ask what time it is—and a million other things—he cannot imagine asking Valjean for anything, even something as small as an answer. “Do you?” he eventually asks, dry and flat. 

Quiet settles between them, awkwardly, its presence making them both uncomfortable, and yet refusing to leave. Javert gets the sense that Valjean is waiting for something. Valjean has already provided Javert with some simple explanations that seem to have been intended to soothe him, although they failed at doing so.

Javert was slightly feverish after he was pulled from the river, shivering violently but burning to the touch, so Valjean siphoned soup between his lips and cleaned his body, wrapping him up in blankets, and the next morning the fever had broken and Javert came too. He’s at Valjean’s home in Rue de l'Homme-Armé, or so Valjean says. 

Javert wants to believe his words are true. Not because he wants to imagine Valjean pulling soaked clothes from his clammy skin, and not because he is eager to be held captive in the home of a man who has every reason and power to slit his throat whenever he wishes, but because he cannot discern reality for himself. He must be able to trust something. 

“I don’t need anything,” Valjean starts, abrupt after such an extended silence. “I only supposed you might like to go for a walk—”

“I cannot see,” Javert snaps.

“—Or to have something read to you—

“I am not an infant.”

“—Or someone to converse with, even—”

“I cannot imagine what conversation you could have to offer me, nor any person I would be less eager to converse with.” Javert’s voice drags, gravelly, like sharp-edged rocks, out of his throat. Anger flushes quick through his veins and he speaks with it before he thinks. 

The things he wants? He wants Valjean to leave him alone. He wishes anyone else could have been the one to rescue him. He wishes he wasn’t pulled from the Seine at all. He wants to know what is right and wrong and stop wondering why a convict has the heart to care for the man who has hunted him and scrupulously dismantled any semblance of a life he tried to build for years on end. 

“I am sorry,” Valjean says, and Javert thinks he has never hated anyone more. “I’m the only person here, and the only conversation I can offer is my own.” 

There is the rough scrape of a heavy chair against the floor, and then Valjean is walking out of the room again, leaving Javert with the distinct click of a door closing. 

He doesn’t know what is worse, the dread of waiting for the other shoe to drop or the dread of knowing there’s nothing to wait for. 

What would that say about Valjean? 

What would that say about Javert?

Four:

The heavy clash of several metal objects tumbling to the floor.

Javert, weak-limbed from days of rest, had decided to ease himself up off the bed by touch—running his hand along the bedframe to find the edge, clinging to the headboard as he shifted his weight onto his feet—and in an attempt to walk across the room, with nothing but blurry lights and shadows for guidance, he must’ve knocked something to the floor. 

Now, he listens to the residual ringing in the air, distinctly metal. He’d lurched forward and banged his knee on what feels like a table, so it must’ve been something on there. A wash basin? A metal bowl and spoon? 

He considers his options. He doesn’t know if Valjean is home or not, although the man usually seems to be, considering how often Javert can hear the thud of wood, the drag of chairs, the crisp fall of a sharp knife through vegetables. 

If Valjean is home, it’s only a matter of moments before the convict is by his side, putting his hand on Javert’s back and asking him where he wants to go or how he can help, or something equally frustrating. It would be embarrassing for Valjean to find him here, clinging to the edge of the table, and embarrassing for Valjean to find him back in bed, something lying loudly on the floor, and it would be embarrassing for Valjean to find him on his hands and knees, fumbling on the floor to find whatever it is and put it back on the table. 

Instead of any of these options, Javert forges forward, gritting his teeth as if sheer will can clear his vision and make the doorway materialize before him. He can slightly make out a dark rectangle against a lighter background—probably dark wood against light stone—and he takes slow steps there, unsure when he might find an uneven raise in the floor or an item strewn across his path. 

If Valjean isn’t home, this is Javert’s opportunity to become familiar with the space he has been in—and, if he’s honest with himself, will probably continue to be stuck in for a long time—free of observation. He doesn’t want Valjean here when he takes his first steps, unsteady like those of a newborn colt. 

Javert runs his hand over the wood until he finds the doorknob, and he turns it. 

Five: 

The rush of the river in his ears, screaming, tearing at him as if to pull his limbs from his body. 

The Seine, unforgiving and forever moving, drags him to the bottom, stuffs his throat full of filth, scrapes his body against the rocks, splitting his skull and slicing his coat open to let the cold rush over him like ice. 

He wakes, gasping, a hoarse cry wrenched from his dry throat and hanging in the air, something clamped around his arm. He can feel his chest lift and fall rapidly, and for a moment he’s astonished that he’s pulling in hair and not water into his lungs.

But he’s not lying on the muddy riverbank, cold seeping into his bones.

He’s wearing soft, dry clothes, and he can feel worn blankets under his hands, which feel rough but clean. The weight of a second blanket drapes over him, making him slightly, but not uncomfortably, over-warm. In fact, the only discomfort he feels is the stinging in his eyes, itchy and irritated. He squeezes them tighter shut, trying to alleviate the itch, but to no avail. 

Though his vision hasn’t gotten any worse or any better over the days, his eyes have never stung like this since the first time he woke up, where they had a gentle burn to them, irritating but otherwise barely worthy of note. 

It takes him a moment to realize they’re stinging with the salt of his tears. 

Whatever was holding his arm has retreated, and in the place of that warmth, his arm feels cold. 

Oh, he realizes uncomfortably, Valjean.

“You were talking in your sleep,” Valejan says. Javert can feel in the dry ache of his throat that he must have been screaming. “I hope you do not mind my waking you.”

Once again, Javert is inexplicably furious with Valjean for his care. “I was screaming,” he says acidly, “I hardly expect one would mind being pulled from such a nightmare.”

Valjean is silent for a moment. Javert finds himself wishing he could see Valjean’s expression, study it for signs of frustration or pity. It must be steeped in pity. And even so, the longer the silence stretches, the more Javert regrets his words. He’s spent his life being nothing but short to most people, politely concise to his superiors. He doesn’t even know how to express gratitude—not that he wants to. He wishes he knew how all the same. 

“Then I am glad—” Valjean begins, just as Javert says, “I was dreaming about—”

Valjean’s words halt as soon as Javert begins to speak, which only makes Javert feel worse. Has Javert starved Valjean for words with him so much that Valjean must leave space so open for him? It appears he may have. 

Javert takes a pause. “I was dreaming of drowning,” Javert finishes. He cannot seem to make his words sound less clipped as they leave his mouth. It sounds as if he’s giving a verbal report to the chief of police. “In the Seine,” he adds awkwardly.

Another moment of silence. 

“I am sorry,” Valjean says finally.

Javert frowns. He can see the dark silhouette of Valjean in what must be the light of a candle, because it’s somewhere in the earliest hours of the morning. “For saving me?” It’s the first time he’s used the word save and the closest he’s gotten to a thank you. 

Beside him, Valjean makes a huffing, mirthless laugh. “Not at all, Inspector.”

“Don’t call me inspector.” Javert attempts to soften his voice and only partly succeeds. “I cannot be an inspector when I cannot see the pickpocket’s face.”

Surprise colors Valjean’s voice. “What am I to call you, then?”

Without an occupation—for who is going to employ Javert in his condition?—Javert cannot think what to offer Valjean. Reluctantly: “Javert.” 

He wishes even more that he could see Valjean’s expression now. He’d like to think that it’s triumphant, curled around the pleasure of seeing the police inspector that has hounded his heels fallen before him so, but Javert suspects that’s not Valjean’s expression at all. Loathe as he is to permit the thought, Valjean is too good a man to feel such a way. 

“Well, I am not sorry to have saved you. I am only sorry you have to suffer so.” A hesitation. “Javert.”

To hear his name spoken in that voice feels like jumping off a bridge all over again, but not into the Seine. Not into anything. 

It just feels as if Javert is falling.

Things that Javert does not hear:

Valjean getting home. 

Javert has made a habit of wandering outside of his room when he knows Valjean is out of the house, learning the placement of the heavy armchair and the small dining room table, the engravings on the cabinets and the sound it makes when it clicks open and close.

Since he’s started to talk to Valjean—not much, just things like what he might like for dinner, and what Valjean saw on his walk—he’s considered asking Valjean to describe the house to him, but he’s unsure how he would go about that. He can’t imagine how Valjean would answer him. The windows are shut, the rug is brown and worn, the paint on the cabinet is peeling. Those are the things he wants to know, and he feels too foolish to ask. 

When Valjean says he’s going out to give alms, Javert slips out of bed and walks about, learning the dimensions of the rooms. 

When Valjean gets home this time, Javert doesn’t hear the thump of the door or the footsteps he’s gotten used to, slightly uneven. He isn’t paying enough attention.

“Javert?” Valjean says.

Javert startles as if he’s been caught stealing Valjean’s silver instead of standing in front of the window, gazing into the blurry square of light. Valjean’s voice is soft. There’s something terrifying in it—something like wonder. 

“Valjean,” Javert returns, sounding unsteady even to his own ears. He wishes he could see Valjean’s face. Not because he wants to read Valjean’s expression so much as he wishes he could see the man he’s living with. 

For a long time, they’re quiet. Javert is highly conscious of Valjean’s eyes on him. He must be a sight, tangled hair down his back and his clothes sleep-creased. 

Valjean clears his throat. “Would you like to go for a walk?”

This time I'll stick to it!! Posting a new chapter every weekend! Mark my words!!!

A collection of moments as Javert learns to fill in the absence of his visual reality with his own imagination.

I told you I'd stick to it this time!! (Or maybe I said I wasn't sure I'd remember... in any case, I'm on schedule!)


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


One:

The blooming flowers in Valjean’s garden. 

Valjean begins to make Javert chrysanthemum tea on the days when his voice scrapes and a light cough begins to return. When Javert inquires, Valjean explains it’s from the garden. 

“Your garden,” Javert says dumbly. He remembers Jean Valjean’s file, now. He’s not sure if it’s a peaceful or a sad thing to know he’s returned to what he used to do, all those years ago. Coaxing plants into his favor. Perhaps it is nice to think he is doing something so nurturing and beautiful. Perhaps it is sad to think he has had to wait until he is a white-haired man to return to the thing he did when he was nineteen. “What do you grow?”

“Chrysanthemum, for tea. Roses. Vegetables—cucumbers, beets, turnips, onions, cabbages… apples…” 

As he goes on, Javert pictures it: rows of sprouts, rose bushes bare of blossoms at this time of year, apple trees flowering in the fall, cucumber vines crawling across the ground. 

Whenever he walks beside Valjean through the streets, cautious and attentive to the gentle pressure of Valjean’s hand on his arm, he has passed through Valjean’s garden, but he never thought to linger. He never thought to wonder what the little spots of color were among the green, and now he wishes he’d asked before. 

Now, when they go on their morning walks, he imagines the beauty of them.

Two: 

The look on Valjean’s face the first time Javert sits beside him on the couch. 

It takes a long time for Javert to get used to the dimensions of the objects in the house: where the armchair is, the couch, the table, the doorway. Where the hard wood floors become a rough woven rug. But as he gets better, he begins to move around the house more independently.

Valjean checks in with him less about whether he’d like to move to the couch. He stops coming by altogether to guide Javert to the lavatory and back again. He cooks and he sends the washing off periodically to refresh Javert’s clothes and sheets, but he initiates conversation with Javert less, even though when they do speak, it’s become more and more… friendly.

Javert supposes that’s the word for it. Friendly.

Regardless, if Javert was more open, perhaps Valjean would speak to him more now, but what’s done is done, and Javert finds himself missing something about Valjean’s presence when Valjean is in the house, but not with Javert. Knowing that Valjean could turn and come closer and talk to him, but he isn’t. 

So, after enough days of this, or weeks, Javert still hasn’t learned to track the passing time, Javert seeks Valjean out. He’s tired of waiting. 

Valjean is reading on the couch when Javert eases himself down, careful to find the broad shape of Valjean’s body against the shape of the boxy shape of the couch and settle on the other end, where he is at no risk of brushing any part of Valjean’s body. 

He holds himself stiff. He doesn’t know how else to hold himself. 

Valjean is holding something dark and looking at it—it’s probably a book—but the shadowy shape of him moves when Javert sits and Javert can gather that he’s looking up. 

“Good evening,” Valjean says, his voice recognizably surprised. There’s a note of disbelieving gratification, as if he isn’t sure this is truly happening, but he hopes it is. “Is there…. Do you need something? Would you like—Sorry. Good evening.”

Javert has hardly ever heard this man stumble over his words. He isn’t rigid, but he’s firm. He knows what he wants to say, and he steers the conversation with a gentle but sure hand. 

“Good evening,” he says dryly. “Have I startled you?”

“No, not at all,” Valjean protests, too quickly for it to be true. “I’ve just never… you don’t often join me.”

“I never do,” Javert corrects.

He finds himself wishing he could watch Valjean’s expression as he settles himself. He constructs an approximation in his mind instead based on the surprise and—did he imagine it?—delight in Valjean’s voice. He’s familiar enough with Valjean’s face after all these years; it takes no effort to call it to the forefront of his mind and run through the expressions he’s seen it make. 

He pictures slightly widened eyes, a soft smile at the edges of Valjean’s lips, a considering glance trying to puzzle Javert out.

Javert can’t even puzzle himself out. What was he hoping for once he sat down? Just Valjean’s presence close to his?

“What are you reading?” he asks gruffly, after an unnatural silence.

He can sense Valjean look over at him again. “The Bible,” Valjean says, “as I do every day.”

Javert’s lips twist humorlessly. Of course he does. But even though something sharp and ironic sits on his tongue, he does not let it out of his mouth. Instead, he says, “Can you read it to me?”

He’d like to see Valjean’s eyes flicker with surprise, his smile widen, but he must be content to imagine it. Valjean’s snowy white hair framing a broad smile, bright eyes with laugh lines. There’s something about his face that makes him look as if he cannot ever fall. 

There comes the sound of thin pages turning, and then Valjean begins.

Three:

Teenage Valjean stumbling home to his starving family, empty handed, day after day.

He should be more disturbed by the idea of sympathizing with the act of a crime than he is, he thinks. But he’s not as horrified as he used to be to think of Valjean stealing that loaf of bread all those years ago.

It’s one thing to realize a criminal is human, and perhaps Valjean has some good traits mixed in with the bad. It’s another thing entirely to admit perhaps taking the loaf of bread wasn’t even bad at all.

No, that’s too much of an extreme. Stealing is still wrong. 

When they’re eating together across the table with thick crusted bread between both of them, Valjean becomes more open than Javert has ever been able to get him in conversation, and they begin to speak of Valjean’s childhood. 

Valjean talks about the hunger pangs casually, as if he expects Javert will scoff and accuse him of dramatizing for pity if he lingers on the feeling any longer than a breath, but Javert knows what it’s like to feel hungry. 

“You forget I was born in a jail,” Javert tells him when Valjean pauses to take another bite of the bread, homebaked and still warm. “I had nothing and no one to rely upon, even when I was young. I went hungry many nights.”

“I have not forgotten.” Javert recognizes Valjean’s careful tone. He has grown familiar with using it as of late: the sound of someone scared to say too much, lest they scare a reluctant speaker from saying anything more. 

“I know how it feels. I remember.” 

A ghost of the feeling blooms in Javert’s gut in memory: the waves of nausea that accompanied an empty stomach, and how often he would choke down foul water to soothe the ache. The lightheadedness and the sunspots in his vision when he stood up too fast. The times when he’d curl his hands around his own forearms and scrape his fingernails along the softer skin on the insides of his arms, one sharp pain to distract him from another. He can picture Valjean, young and so skinny you could count his ribs, doing the same. 

“You went hungry,” Valjean says gently, “but did you ever starve?”

And now Javert pictures Valjean’s cheeks hollowed, so the shape of his skull is visible beneath his skin. He imagines not just Valjean’s ribs, but the jutting bones of his bare knees and elbows, his wrists like stalks of straw. 

He feels like a glutton, sitting safe between Valjean’s large stone walls, dipping fresh bread into hot soup and eating efficiently, as if it is a task and not a luxury to keep his body fed. It is both, and he is lucky, and somewhere along the many years of life, on the many miles of chase, he’d forgotten just how lucky. 

When Javert doesn’t respond—Javert hasn’t a clue what he could respond—Valjean presses, “Have you ever watched your family starve with you?”

No. As Valjean said, prisoners in the jails had gone hungry, but they never starved. Usually, they caught disease and died before they could starve. Perhaps it was lucky, in the end, that Javert hadn’t had to watch his mother shrink into a thinner and thinner line, that she had died in a way less painful and less drawn out, even if that meant she left him sooner. 

“I do not envy you,” he tells Valjean. And then, terrified of how true the words feel as he speaks them, he admits, “Were I you, I do not know what I would have done.”

Four: 

The local poor Valjean hands out alms to. 

At first, Javert had been unsure about joining Valjean as he went walking in the mornings, handing out blankets and food to people that, were he to pass them in the street, Javert would have turned from with no remorse. 

He wasn’t sure how it would make him feel, and he didn’t think he much wanted to find out. Disgusted, that these people with their dirty hands and decaying teeth were reaching out in his direction? Even if he couldn’t see them, he could hear them, maybe even smell them, as his attentiveness to his other senses grew stronger. Ashamed to witness Valjean do something kinder than Javert had ever even considered doing with such casual regularity?

He finds himself merely… existing beside Valjean as Valjean makes his rounds. 

He hears the light laughter of young children, so easy to please, so eager to believe the world is beautiful. He hears the cries of gratitude from mothers on the streets. 

“I suppose you think it is wasteful,” Valjean remarks as they walk. “You think I cannot save anybody, that I cannot even make a dent in the poverty that plagues this place.”

“Close, but not quite,” Javert admits. 

“What, then?” It doesn’t sound challenging, merely curious. “Perhaps it is that no matter what I do today, they will still want bread the next day, and the next day, and the next?”

“No, not that either,” Javer says, although he was thinking it. “It is not up to you to help them at all, even if you can. It is their life to waste or to use if they so please.” 

The curiosity in Valjean’s tone grows cold around the edges, his voice freezing over where before it had flowed. “It is up to every man to give help when he has what another man needs.”

“I do not know how you can have lived this many years and still believe that,” Javert tells him, but he does not mean it as an insult. It is just a statement of fact: he does not know.

Valjean walks quietly beside him, their shoes clipping on the stone streets. “You do not know the expressions of joy on their faces, or you would not say so. If you can bring someone so much relief just by taking a walk, why should you not?”

“Taking a walk and giving him a blanket and bread, neither of which is free for you,” Javert points out. 

Valjean’s clothing rustles, and Javert imagines him making a gesture, or perhaps shrugging. “I have my garden, and a comfortable place to sleep. I am happy and I am safe. What else is there?”

So many things. A beautiful house, paintings on the walls,silver in the cabinets, silk handkerchiefs and shining boots,thick winter coats embroidered with shining thread. But if none of these things will make Valjean happy, then what is their use? Suddenly, Javert isn’t sure. 

What is the value of anything if it doesn’t make Valjean happy?

Javert stops thinking about it. He says, “Coach rides to see that girl you raised—the whore’s daughter.”

He doesn’t say the word whore with any feeling, but perhaps using it is provocation enough. Valjean breathes sharply in through his nose, and then there’s another rush of people to hand out alms to.

For some reason, the idea of Valjean’s anger with him disturbs Javert so much that he finds he must distract himself from the concept entirely. He pictures instead the people he can hear.

Javert hears a raspy woman, sounding middle-aged and dragged down by years of suffering, say, “God bless your heart.” He imagines her hair is unwashed and plastered to her worry-wrinkled forehead with sweat from the sun, the hem of her garment dirty and the soles of her shoes thin, clasping a loaf of bread in her hands, dirt beneath her nails. Her calloused hands tell a story of work, and somewhere in them, there is the wrong decision she made that sent her life spiraling down. How did she end up here? Perhaps she sold herself into the street,maybe she has a scar on her neck from when a man got violent with her, maybe her hair is chopped short because she has had to sell it. It consoles him to think she has ended up here through her own fault, as the thought always has, but this time when he has it, there’s something else tangled up in there; something akin to guilt for the thought. Something that suggests quietly that it is more of an excuse not to feel than a belief he truly holds. His stomach turns. 

Then there’s a high-voiced thank you, Monsieur, which sounds like a young girl, accompanied by the soft, flat sounds of bare feet on stone. He imagines she is stick thin and as high as his waist, her hair brown and matted, her face streaked with dust and hollowed slightly with hunger. She’s dressed in a ripped dress her mother got her two years ago, and she’s not holding the bread as if it’s precious, the way the middle-aged woman would have. She’s tearing into it with her bare hands, pressing lumps of the soft inside into her mouth, making her cheeks bulge. There are scratches on her ankles that tell of tumbles in the road. But her hands are too young to tell of mistakes she’s made. She is probably not here because of mistakes she’s made, but because of her mother’s or father’s mistakes. 

That sits uneasy in Javert’s stomach, a hard and heavy stone that labors his steps as they walk back. Valjean doesn’t pick up the conversation again, and they walk back home in silence. 

When did Javert start thinking of it as home?

Five: 

Valjean on his knees in the dirt.

Javert has found he likes to picture things in detail, to focus on building the image. It makes him feel closer to seeing, closer to reality, and it gives him something to do. It allows for him to imagine things the way he wants them. 

In his mind’s eye, Valjean is on his knees in the dirt, his hands streaked with soil. Beside him is a small hand-held shovel with which he digs little circular divots in the ground in neat lines. A thin layer of sweat shines on his brow and his snowy hair is pulled back from his eyes with a ribbon, but stray strands stick to the curves of his face and curl at his temples. His strong arms flex as he works the clumps of soil loose, so that it takes in water more willingly, yielding to his nurturing touch. 

Javert can see that clearly: his large, calloused hands, thick-fingered and deft, dirt collecting in the lines of his palms and speckling his bare forearms. Javert remembers Jean le Cric’s broad shoulders, bare and rippling with muscle. 

Then Javert pictures approaching Valjean as he tends to his garden, sprinkling seeds into the holes and covering them gently with mounds of dirt. In his imagination, he’s bolder and can speak to Valjean in ways other than disagreeing with his saintly opinions. Maybe he offers to water or to weed. Maybe he pretends not to know he has to pull the weeds up from the root, and when Valjean explains this, Javert is a little too slow to pick it up, so Valjean demonstrates, pulling the weed out with force that makes Javert’s heart skip a beat and twisting his wrist to get the roots free of the soil. Maybe Javert still doesn’t understand, so Valjean shuffles over, putting his arms around Javert’s thin frame and curling his warm hands firmly around Javert’s own. Maybe then, together, they pull and twist, and Javert falls back against Valjean just enough to feel the shape of his wide chest against his back. 

Maybe Javert has done enough picturing things. He should return to his senses.

Things Javert does not picture:

Falling back farther, sending them both sprawling on the ground.

He does not imagine what it might feel like for Valjean’s arms to encircle him just as they must have when they pulled him from the river. He does not imagine how Valjean’s chest would lift up and down under Javert’s weight with each breath, even and clear. He’d steady Javert with a hand on the small of his back before Javert rolled off of Valjean and into the dirt, keeping their bodies pressed flush, warm in the summer sun and stiflingly hot in the airless space between them. 

He doesn’t open the picture in his head, like a widower keeping a portrait of her lover in the attic, rolled up and out of sight—he cannot bear to contemplate it and deal with the rush of complicated emotion that accompanies it. 

He doesn’t imagine it, but the picture is there, in his mind, as if waiting for him to climb the stairs and meet it. 

Keep an eye out! New chapter every weekend!

Javert begins to grow into his space.

If you haven't seen the movie Bottoms go see it!! Go see it!! Unrelated to the fic, but I want everyone on this movie immediately.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


One: 

Rose-hip tea.

Javert has learned by touch most of the geography of the house, and he’s gotten familiar enough with the kitchen that he can find where Valjean stores sachets of tea leaves in the wooden cabinet, and boil the water for himself. Lately, he’s also begun to brew tea for Valjean too, when Valjean is out doing something Javert doesn’t want to join him for, usually charity work. Valjean is always doing charity work. 

He’s under no illusions—he knows Valjean is much more capable of brewing his own tea, not just because he moves more confidently around the kitchen with the aid of sight but also because Valjean knows how to do it the way he likes and Javert doesn’t. He doesn’t know how much sugar to put, or how long he should let it cool before it is acceptable to drinkOf course Valjean is of no help because he would still tell Javert the tea was perfect even if Javert mixed dirt from the garden to create mud. 

Yet he still finds himself brewing tea for the both of them while Valjean’s out, because for some nonsensical, probably sentimental reason, Valjean seems touched and pleased the first time Javert does it. 

He boils the water, feeling around for the leaves and dropping them into the bottoms of two teacups. For Valjean, he adds a thin sprinkling of sugar. Javert takes it straight. 

It’s not like he makes a dedicated effort to keep Valjean happy, nothing so bad as that. It’s just that lately, Valjean has been arriving home quiet and unhappy for some reason Javert can’t identify. With no idea how to ask about it, brewing tea for Valjean as a sort of stupid, meaningless gesture that somehow means something to Valjean seems like the only thing he’s even capable of doing for the man. 

One of these days, he feels around for the tea bags and comes up with something else, small and smooth. He curls his fingers around them curiously, and sticks them into the teacups. Valjean wouldn’t have stored it in the place he stored his tea items unless it was a tea item, so he has no qualms about simply slipping them into the hot water and letting them steep, unsure if they need to be further prepared. The steam rises to his face, warm as it settles and then cold as it evaporates away. It’s encouraging that they seem to be infusing the water with their scent, at least.

When Valjean gets home, his footsteps pause in the threshold before he even turns the corner to see Javert in the kitchen, and Javert knows Valjean has smelled it too without having to ask.

Valjean’s steps approach Javert and then reaches around to pick up a teacup. In Javert’s ear, he murmurs a thank you, Javert as he’s leaning around, arm encircling Javert’s waist without touching. Just to get the tea. Just to get the tea. 

Javert breathes in the steam and tries to think only of the rose hips from the garden.

Two: 

Autumn. 

It doesn’t dawn on Javert how much time has passed until the season passes from summer into autumn. He can smell it in the air; no longer does the suffocating heat carry sweat and filth, sewer and waste water evaporating and hanging in the air. 

Now, the air cools and with the heat goes its capacity to carry moisture, creating a crisp breeze that smells of fallen leaves and the sap of broken branches. It smells like fresh bread, where the scent has the space to linger, no longer stifled by the drag of summer. It smells like the pumpkin soup Valjean cooks from the pumpkins in his garden.

Before he cuts it up, Valjean heaves the pumpkin onto the table for Javert to run his hands over and feel the shape of. Valjean’s excited, Javert realizes, as Valjean’s footsteps circle him. 

“I know you can’t see it,” Valjean says apologetically, “but it’s beautiful. You can feel how wide it is—can’t you? How smooth? God has smiled on me in this small way.” 

Javert can’t help a smile. Yes, he can feel that it must be a beautiful pumpkin. He thinks Valjean, not God, should get the credit for such a flourishing vegetable, but he doesn’t say so. Valjean is both pious and humble. He says, “The last time you made pumpkin soup was from the same plant?”

“That one was beautiful too,” Valjean says, confirming. For a moment, he seems to hesitate. Javert has begun to believe he can sense when Valjean is simply quiet or when he is hesitating, though he cannot be sure. “Now that summer has faded, perhaps you would like to… join me in the garden?” 

Javert goes still. Yes. “I have never been one for gardening, Valjean,” he says instead, afraid of what imagining gardening beside Valjean might illuminate, “I believe if I were to try to nurture a plant, it would die faster than were I to throw it out onto the street and let it root between the cobblestones.”

“Nonsense.” There’s a chuckle in Valjean’s voice, and Javert’s stomach tumbles. “Have you ever tried it?”

Javert shakes his head and moves away from Valjean’s voice. He can’t stop imagining Valjean’s strong arms working the soil loose and pulling weeds with a firm twist of his wrist. “The sun is too much for me, even in fall,” he lies. 

Valjean seems to suspect something else is bothering Javert, but he doesn’t push it. “Very well.”

Three: 

Clean, cold, starched and pressed laundry, every month or so, if he is counting the days correctly.

Valjean has gotten into the habit of telling Javert the date, ever since Javert mentioned not realizing it was fall until the air changed around him, and he is then able to mark the time in other ways, too, able to tell that Valjean visits that girl at least once a week and does laundry around every month. He hasn’t brought the girl up again, and Valjean only mentions her to say he is leaving to visit her every now and again. The topic sits heavy, like they are on two ends of a sheet and Cosette—that’s the girl’s name, Cosette—is a heavy rock between them, towards which Valjean and Javert will slide, slowly, until both of them collide over the subject. 

This time, Valjean is out and Javert meets the landlady, Challan, who does their laundry regularly and brings it back, to gather the washed clothes. 

“Here you go—hello,” Challan says, as Javert opens the door, clearly not Valjean. He wonders what he looks like: thin and straight as a rod, slightly looming, his long hair spilling down his back. With a trickle of dread, he realizes he has no idea which direction his eyes are pointing, he can only see the shape of her vaguely, darkish and human-shaped against the light coming through the doorway. “You must be that houseguest I’ve heard so much about.”

“Oh.” Javert clutches the door in his hands, wondering who she’s heard from, and what she’s heard. It’s not the first time he’s thought about what other people living nearby might think of his going in and out of Valjean’s house, as if they have suddenly become the best of friends—or something worse—but it is the first time he’s been confronted with the possibility of finding out. He dearly wishes he could see the way she’s looking at him now. If she wonders whether they’re committing sin behind closed doors. He feels as if his desire is written over his skin. “Yes, I am Val—I am the houseguest here.” In the alarm that threads through him, he forgets the false name Valjean uses. He forgets, often, that Valjean has a false name at all.

“Are you a policeman?” she asks, “because this might be for you.”

“I’ll take it all in,” Javert tells her, and does so quickly, eager to be out of this woman’s company, afraid he will give himself or Valjean away if he lingers. It isn’t until he’s inside that he lends any thought to her comment. 

A policeman?

He spreads the laundry on his bed, filling his room with the crisp scent of freshly done laundry, slightly starchy. 

And—there it is—he can identify it by touch. The commissioned police uniform that had gotten soaked in the river. He never thought he’d feel it again. He hadn’t been sure what Valjean had done with it, but he expected it had been burned or thrown away. Valjean, surely, would want no reminder of the danger he kept alive in his own house. 

But here it is.

The buttons, the thick, hardy fabric. He can picture it, dark and stately, all hard angles, shoulders, lapels. He presses it to his nose, but he cannot even faintly smell the putrid waters of the Seine in the fabric, not the human waste, not the sour silt, not the oils and factory muck. 

Nothing but clean fabric, like the first day he received his position. 

Four:

Valjean. 

It has been a while since Valjean has needed to hoist him up and half-carry him from place to place, so Javert has much less occasion for getting so physically close to the man. 

They speak more, of course, but they hardly ever touch anymore, nothing but the quick brush of fingertips when Valjean passes him something, warm, rough calluses ghosting over the back of Javert’s hand. 

It isn’t until Javert stumbles for the first time in what must be months, tripping on uneven cobblestone as they take an evening walk, that he gets pulled close to Valjean’s broad chest again, arms encircling him, hands pressing to his back to steady him. 

It’s only then that Javert realizes Valjean has a scent. 

He recognizes it immediately, like clean sweat and fresh-cut wood. It twists his heart so suddenly, he stiffens in Valjean’s arms without thinking, pressing his face in closer to the warm skin of Valjean’s neck.

Javert jerks back quickly, wondering what he looks like—flushed red, even in the fall chill, mouth pulled tight and breath coming in heavy. Will Valjean assume that it was Javert losing his balance? Hopefully he will. He can feel Valjean’s eyes on him, tracking him as he walks on, but he cannot see whether it is Valjean studying him, or simply making sure he doesn’t trip again. 

That smell. 

It makes Javert’s chest hurt, his lungs aching from dragging in so much air at once, like a man so parched he chokes on his first taste of water, too eager to be careful. He didn’t even realize Valjean had a distinct smell until now. It feels like he’s missed it, spent his days waiting for it and his nights turning on his pillow to see if he can find it again, except that he hadn’t known to look for it. He didn’t know he longed for it so deeply until now.

As Javert has begun to walk more independently, Valjean has given him a cane, which sometimes hits a raised stone in the road before his foot does. The last uneven stone must have gotten past him somehow.

Now, he feels the hiccup in the road before it comes to him. Without thinking, he drags his feet lower, catching that ridge with the toe of his shoe. He’s swept into Valjean’s arms again, his scent enveloping him, so quickly, it’s as if Valjean was waiting for him to stumble. 

“My apologies,” Javert says, rough whiskers against his cheek. “An uninterrupted walk seems to evade me, today.”

Javert cannot imagine why he chose to fall. Why did he do that? Yet, breathing in that chopped-wood smell, he can’t help but be glad for whatever possessed him to do so. 

“Do not apologize.” When Valjean speaks, it sounds a little tense. “I’m grateful for our walks, Javert, and more than happy to catch you if you should fall.”

Javert swallows and pulls away. 

Five: 

Spices on his own fingertips. 

Valjean, Javert has begun to notice, doesn’t like to treat himself kindly. He keeps himself alive, but nothing much more than that. The food he cooks is simple, even though he appears to have a fondness and affinity for cooking. He eats hard crusts and vegetable stock, and feeds Javert the better cuts of meat, the soft insides of the bread loaf. 

Valjean can afford more, no doubt, but Javert is beginning to understand the way Valjean works more and more, and he knows it has nothing to do with money. It’s simply that Valjean finds it a waste to indulge in luxuries—or even mere comforts—for himself. 

When Valjean goes out to visit Cosette again, Javert slips out of the house, remembering only what Valjean has remarked upon during their walks through the streets side by side. He remembers it isn’t far to the market. 

It’s there that Javert buys a handful of spices, ones whose names he recognizes. When he gets back he places them on the kitchen counter and goes back into his room. When he presses his palms to his nose, he can smell the scent of them, different flavors mixing, lingering on his hands. 

“Javert,” Valjean says when he comes back, something uncertain coloring his voice, “Javert?”

Javert leans against his doorway.

“Do you…” Valjean hesitates. Javert, by now, is sure he can tell when Valjean is hesitating or simply going thoughtfully quiet. “Do you dislike the food I give you?”

Javert’s stomach drops. It hadn’t even occurred to him that what he did could be interpreted that way. He feels foolish and hapless, incapable of even the simplest human interaction: a silent gift giving. Even his attempted act of kindness feels cold, even criticizing. He feels his face get hot. How could Valjean ever feel… Javert isn’t sure what he wants Valjean to feel, only that he’s suddenly sure Valjean could never feel it, not for him. A sense of companionship, perhaps?

He isn’t even sure what he wants to communicate in response, now. That it was not meant to say anything of the sort, of course. But somehow, more than that, too. That he’s grateful for what Valjean gives him, no matter what it is, or that Javert is a better man than one who might leave a bag of spices on the counter without a word as a covert insult. It displeases him that Valjean would even hesitate here, as if unsure if he has something to apologize for. The idea that Valjean might believe he could have something to apologize for disturbs him. It seems like another life, the months ago when he thought everything Valjean had done and could do was wrong. 

“No,” Javert says, unable to say all the rest, “It’s good food.” 

Things Javert does not smell:

The Seine’s sick waters, churning yellow and brown with waste and silt. 

The first time Valjean and Javert walked past the Seine on one of their walks, Javert’s knees had given away beneath him as soon as he heard that rush of water. The sound folded over him, curled under him, tore him from where he stood and turned him about, like a hard, cresting wave. Even though he knew they were too far to smell the river, Javert felt his lungs constrict around the smell of disease, filthy water rising as if to choke him in steam.

Valjean’s arm caught him, holding him up, and eased him slowly home, murmuring quiet words Javert couldn’t make out over the buzzing panic in his ears. 

They didn’t go back to the Seine after that, not for many months. 

Now, they are on their way again, at Javert’s relentless insistence. 

He hadn’t been able to sit in Valjean’s house, thinking of the Seine, and keep on living. There was something about it that stood in his way, a demon he must conquer to keep moving forward. 

And he wanted to move forward, he’d decided. He’d had enough of standing in one place.

Valjean now stands beside him, his gaze burning into the size of Javert’s face. Javert can hear the worry in his voice as Valjean asks, “Are you alright, Javert?”

The tender way his name comes out of Valjean’s mouth feels foreign even after so many months. It wasn’t built to be uttered with such round sounds, but Valjean makes it sound like music. 

Javert clutches the stone and breathes, letting the sound of rushing water wash over him, far below. He’s dry from head to toe, and he can feel the heat of Valjean’s body close to his. He focuses on that heat, and he doesn’t smell a thing. 

“Yes. I’m alright.”

Reminder again to go see Bottoms the movie. It's available on Amazon Prime, I believe. I'm obsessed.

Also, thanks everyone for your comments!! You're all so sweet!

Javert is beginning to notice Valjean more... and more...

I almost forgot to post this week. Thanks everyone for reading!!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


One:

Comfort.

When he wakes from a bad dream to find a warm, firm hand on his bicep, he breathes out, the name on his tongue as natural as air. “Valjean.”

For Valjean is there without fail, a low murmuring voice by Javert’s ear, warm against the skin of Javert’s neck. 

Valjean stays there beside him, without asking if he should, as Javert’s ragged breathing eases, as the flashes of the Seine begin to fade and he adjusts instead to the darkness, or the fuzzy pinprick of light from the candle Valjean has brought with him. 

“The river?” Valjean asks in that familiar rumble, and Javert nods and counts his breathing off: in, one, two, three, four; out, one, two, three, four. “I’m sorry that it haunts you. I wish I had not driven you to do such a thing.”

The ridiculousness of the remark distracts Javert from his distress completely. “Don’t be absurd. You drove me to do nothing. It is I who decided to jump, and I did so because I wasn’t sure I could live with myself.”

“I’m glad you stuck around to discover if you could.”

“I am glad you made me,” Javert huffs. “You are being silly, giving me the credit.”

It is not only the Seine he has been dreaming of lately, though. He has begun getting flashes of Toulon as well, of the bloodstained whips and the exhausted, dehydrated men lying prone on the ground, half-naked and barefoot. They gasp and writhe under the cold, uncaring gaze of the prison guards. Sometimes they are Valjean. It’s all constructed and likely none of it is memory. Sometimes Javert is the guard with the whip. It kills him that he cannot even remember whether he ever personally split Valjean’s skin. The prisoners mattered so little to him that he might have and he’d hardly know it. 

When his breathing is even, Valjean gets up to leave. It’s an hour late into the night, and he must be tired, eager to get back to sleep, but now Javert is imagining his strong body beneath the lash. He reaches out with one hand, fumbling, and in the dark, Valjean’s wide palm meets his. It’s clean and dry, not dirt streaked or bloodied. Javert squeezes it tight, comforted by the way he can feel Valjean’s steady heartbeat beneath the skin. 

“Thank you,” he says, and lets go of Valjean’s hand. 

Two:

Frustration

Cosette and her lover, Marius, are to be married, and Valjean is preparing to gracefully exit Cosette’s life. 

“I do not understand why you are so distressed,” Valjean says, sounding genuinely caught off guard. 

Javert tries to soften, but he has never been good at that. His words are sharper when he is upset, and his tone is sharper, and his gestures are sharper. He has never learned to round himself out. “I apologize,” Javert says, “if I am speaking too harshly.”

“I just didn’t know you were so…” Valjean searches for the word. “Attached to living here. I know the Seine is an unpleasant thing to be so close to, anyway. You are inside the house so much, I didn’t think—”

“It is not about moving away,” Javert interrupts, even harder now, still, his hand jerking up to run forcefully through his hair. “It is about you moving away from your own daughter.”

A moment of silence.

“That is not what I’ve heard you refer to her before,” Valjean says, measured. “If you do not wish to move away, you may say so. I think perhaps—no, I am sure—we can arrange to remain here if that is what you wish.”

Javert’s heart gives a slight hiccup at the use of we, but he cannot linger on that when Valjean’s skull seems to have lost custody of his brain. “I refer to her as your daughter because she is such. The way I have spoken of her in the past was… wrong. It was wrong, and for that I am sorry. But—Valjean.” 

“It is for the best.” Valjean sounds so resolute Javert wants to cry. He’s not exactly sure why. Fury? Heartbreak? Both? 

“No, it is not.” Javert is fighting the urge to shout. 

“You have never before taken such an interest in my affairs,” Valjean says, which is false. Javert has been interested in all of Valjean’s affairs for a long time now, just unsure of how to ask about them. Instead, he has picked up little threads of conversation Valjean himself drops and follows them casually, as if simply seeking conversation, hungry for any piece of Valjean he can get. 

“You have never before made such a deplorable decision,” Javert counters. He hates the way his voice wavers as he says, “It will make you miserable, Valjean. I will not stand for it.”

“I refuse to ruin Cosette’s life by remaining in it,” Valjean replies, and it is strangely satisfying to finally hear him raise his voice. Valjean hasn’t raised his voice with him since the barricades. 

“You will ruin her life by leaving it. That girl loves you.”

“You have never met her.”

“I have heard enough to tell.”

“I do nothing but sing her praises,” Valjean interjects, “Never have I spoken of her love for me.”

“It is impossible,” Javert roars, in an attempt to speak over Valjean, “It is impossible not to love you.”

The silence rings. 

“Javert—” Valjean begins after a beat. 

“I will not be moved,” Javert announces, terrified of the words that have just come out of his mouth. His mind stumbles after his feet as he turns decisively on his heel. “I refuse to be complicit in your martyring yourself again.”

Three:

Heartache.

It’s his fault, of course. He may not be complicit in Valjean’s self-destruction now, but he was certainly complicit in the past that Valjean is now so eager to hide. 

It is hard to think about it quite like that. That he was complicit in enforcing the law. For that was the law, and he was never corrupt. The law simply punished a man that Javert now feels could never have deserved such treatment. 

Does anyone?

Surely some do. Of course. There are terrible people in the world, and that’s what the police are for: to take the murderers, pimps, and thieves, out of society, cleansing it, leaving the community whole and good. 

Valjean was a thief. 

Fantine was a prostitute. She may have deserved the jails—though Valjean has disagreed with him vehemently on this point many times, Javert never met her—but that Cosette could grow up so lovely and sweet when raised by a convict thief and orphaned by a prostitute mother who slept with a vagabond who fled in the night is beyond Javert. 

He has gotten something wrong, for the different pieces don’t add up. 

It is bad enough to be wrong.

It is worse, still, for his wrongs to be the reason someone as good as Valjean should miss something as important to him as the life of his daughter. 

“You have nothing to apologize for,” Valjean insists, when Javert finally does. “You were only doing your duty.”

“You…” Javert doesn’t know how to finish the sentence. You are too good for what has happened to you. “You only wanted some bread.”

“And that is a crime,” Valjean says quietly. “It was your job to keep track of the criminals.”

Javert does not know how to answer that, either. “I only mean to say, it is not fair that what I have done should cause you such pain.”

“It is not about you, Javert,” Valjean says gently. 

Heartache. His heart is aching. Javert bites the inside of his cheek, hard. Next to him, the sofa cushions rustle—Valjean leaning over to peer at him. “I didn’t mean to imply that it was,” Javert mutters. “Only that the mistakes of others shouldn’t govern your future. You are free.”

“I am never that,” Valjean says. “I will be safe, but I will never be truly free.” 

More rustling. The fabric of Valjean’s shirt sleeves as he pushes them up to run his hands over the scars of his chains. He does that, sometimes, and Javert has become familiar with the sound. 

Four:

Joy.

After weeks of sulking, Cosette comes around the house. 

Javert feels slightly bad for bullying Valjean into it, since he knows the only reason Valjean has given in is because Javert has been extremely and loudly upset, but all guilt melts away when Cosette’s light voice rings through the house and Valjean’s voice lifts to meet it. 

He leaves them there, and sits in the garden under the fading winter sun, wrapped in a coat and scarf. He knows Valjean is offering Cosette biscuits, fresh bread, fruit from the garden, cold from the snow. He knows Cosette is gently chiding Valjean for being so reticent lately, and Valjean is murmuring something shy and stupid. 

Even in the winter chill, Javert feels warm, curling his hands tight in his pockets to contain himself. With no one there to see him, he allows himself a smile. 

When she leaves, she says goodbye to Javert in the garden. 

“I didn’t know,” she says.

“Know?” Javert asks, tipping his face towards the sound of her voice. 

“All of it. About my mother, and Papa.” Cosette hesitates. “All I remember is running when I was young, running so much.”

“That was my fault,” Javert admits. 

“I know.” Cosette’s gaze weighs heavy on Javert, and Javert can’t even find it in himself to care. If Valjean has Cosette, nothing can make him unhappy, not even the shame of being so wrong. “He is a good man, Inspector.”

“I know.”

Valjean’s crying when Javert goes back inside, sniffling and blowing his nose. “She still calls me Papa,” he says, his voice watery and hoarse. 

Javert’s chest feels as if it might burst. His eyes begin to sting, too, but he swallows hard and tries to sound collected. “Did you think she wouldn’t?”

Valjean blows his nose again. “I didn’t—I’m relieved.”

“I’m not,” Javert says. “I wasn’t worried.”

Valjean hiccups out a laugh. “Are you happy now, Javert? Will you stop sulking about?”

Javert’s eyes sting harder and the back of his throat aches. “Yes,” he says, “I’m happy.”

Five:

Affection.

There is a feeling Javert has become familiar with that blooms in him when Valjean does something particularly Valjean-esque. Javert has told himself it is nothing but admiration for Valjean’s goodness, but it has become harder to convince himself as time goes on. 

He gets that feeling when Valjean is giving alms, sure, and when he offers to help people carry things as they pass each other on the street, or when he pays extra for the seeds he purchases for his garden. For these Javert is able to pass off that feeling as simple admiration. A man whose hope in the world has not been killed, despite his obvious suffering at its hands for years. 

He also gets that feeling when Valjean gets out his Bible to read a few passages before every meal, speaking as if he has said the words hundreds of times before, or when he speaks at length about the differences between different kinds of beets before he notices he is rambling, or when he starts to tell Javert something charming from Cosette’s childhood only to realize he’s already told that story before when Javert makes the same grunts of acknowledgement in the same places as before. 

Javert can’t call that admiration or appreciation. It’s nothing but the particulars of being a person, the ticks that distinguish human from machine, moving steady and flawless. 

It’s warm, comfortable, and slightly fluttery. A pleased, familiar feeling. When he thinks of trying to articulate it to Valjean, he doesn’t imagine the words, you are a good man. He imagines something more like, I like you. 

Emotions Javert does not identify:

The feeling at the pit of his stomach and at his fingertips when the sun sinks and Valjean’s voice quiets to a close murmur. 

They’ve taken up reading together in the evenings, something to occupy Javert’s mind. When they sit side by side, Javert can sometimes feel the heat of Valjean’s body next to his own, an inch or so between their shoulders. 

Valjean reads the Bible, long philosophy books, children’s folktales, anything. He uses a different voice to read than he does to speak, rounding out his words and softening the way they fall, as if he is trying to lull Javert into sleep. After a couple sentences, his reading takes on a rhythm, like breath or heartbeat, gently up and down. 

Sometimes, slowly, Javert begins to get drowsy, and then to lean against Valjean, his head tipping to rest on Valjean’s shoulder. He can hear Valjean’s breath stutter, the next few words coming out unevenly, the cadence broken, and then Valjean continues on, even softer than before. 

Sometimes, heart tripping in his chest, Javert pretends to get drowsy, and then leans against Valjean and tips his head to rest on Valjean’s shoulder. 

He’s aware, then, of the warm skin pressing to the tip of his nose, to his forehead. He’s aware of the firm muscle beneath his head. He is wide awake, Valjean’s body moving under him, and he feels something tingling, stirring, and he doesn’t dare look it in the eye. 

Thanks everyone for kudos and comments and don't forget!! Watch Bottoms the movie!! It's great!!

The longing. Sure is there.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


One:

Oranges from the garden, so cold to the touch Javert has to set them down and press his hands to his trousers, warming his fingers against his thighs. 

He offers to start helping in the garden only because Valjean would come inside, sniffing from the cold, and fumbling around the house, his fingers too numb to work properly. Javert would pull up a chair by the fire and force Valjean to sit there with his hands out and let Javert go outside and finish whatever Valjean started. 

He’d pick oranges off the tree, few enough that he could carry them back in his hands. 

“These ones are early,” Valjean tells him, taking an orange from Javert’s hands and tossing it. Javert can hear the thwack as it lands squarely in Valjean’s palm again. “They usually don’t ripen until spring begins to thaw.”

“Are they all ripe?” Javert asks, turning the orange in his own hand, warmer now. “I couldn’t tell, not for all of them.”

“Almost all of them,” Valjean reassures him. There comes the sound of one orange being set down, another being picked up. “This one might have done better with a couple days more on the tree—oh, do stop frowning. It’s just one orange.” 

Javert does not stop frowning. He knows that the tree will have many, many more oranges than they will know what to do with once spring begins to roll around, as Valjean has told him, but the reminder that he cannot do his best for Valjean lingers. 

Valjean’s hands close around his own, hot in contrast to Javert’s. “Your hands are cold,” Valjean says. 

“Yes.” Javert stands there. He can feel the pads of Valjean’s fingertips—one, two, three, four. The thumb makes sweeping motions across the back of his hand. “Yours are warm.”

Valjean tugs Javert by the hand; Javert takes a step closer. Valjean picks up his other hand, and presses the two between his palms tightly, lifting them to blow warm air over the bundle of four clasped hands. 

Javert doesn’t pull his hands back, not even when his hands are warm enough that they don’t bother him anymore. Only when it’s clear there’s no temperature difference between Valjean’s skin and his own does he speak, rough. “Do you want an orange?”

They eat their oranges quietly. At the end of it, Javert’s fingertips are cold again, but so are Valjean’s. They warm their hands at the fire. 

Two: 

Flavors Javert recognizes by smell—the spices he purchased at the market for Valjean. He still doesn’t know what all of them are used for; he was never one for cooking himself, nor one to indulge in anything beyond the necessary to keep his body working its best for him.

Valjean is beside himself with joy on Christmas day, cooking and asking Javert for assistance when his own two hands aren’t enough. Cosette insisted on spending at least half the day with her Papa, and Marius was too smitten to refuse, as Marius tells it. 

They cook beef and potatoes, make soup and bake fresh bread, cookies, and a cake. They move around each other smoothly in the kitchen, a wonder even to Javert himself. They know how the other moves, how to work around them. It feels strangely intimate to cook together. 

When Cosette and Marius arrive, they coo and thank both Valjean and Javert profusely, shaking hands, kissing cheeks. 

It’s clear when they start eating that even though Valjean doesn’t normally cook so extravagantly for himself, he does know how to put together a feast when he wants to, and he knows how to use herbs and spices when he tries. Everyone agrees, complimenting them on everything from the broth of the soup to the tenderness of the meat.

“I hardly helped,” Javert waves Cosette away, “I only did as I was told.”

“You’re very good at that,” Valjean says. It’s spoken warmly, a compliment, but it suddenly makes Javert think of Toulon, of rainy nights, handcuffs, and blood. 

He must be frowning, because he feels a warm, wide hand press against his knee under the table. Valjean. He breathes out. The hand squeezes, once, and lets him go. 

Later, when Valjean’s daughter has gone home with her husband, Javert says, “You should cook like that more often. I will help you.”

“Like what?”

Javert tries to find the words. “Like you are cooking for someone you love.”

Valjean is quiet for a long moment, a thoughtful silence, not a hesitating one. “I do care for you, Javert,” he says, the words uncertain. They are back here again, Valjean finding an insult in Javert’s words. 

“I don’t mean me. You should treat yourself with the same kindness you show Cosette.”

“Cosette is very special to me.” Valjean’s tone is touched, but incredulous, as if what Javert has suggested is as absurd as if he had suggested Valjean go to the police station and ask to apply for a job. 

“Should you not be just as special to yourself?”

“I am not worth so much work.”

Javert huffs, exasperated. “I would do the work for you, if you would tell me what to do. It would give me something to occupy my time.”

Valjean hums but doesn’t respond. He starts cooking more elaborate meals, though, and Javert counts that as a victory.

Three:

The blood and dirt on Valjean’s hand.

Valjean slices himself across the palm. Javert’s not exactly sure how—he’d been wrestling with the overgrown branches of one of his trees, sharp and bare in the winter, trying to prune it, and lost his grip, as Valjean describes it. As it whipped out of his grasp, back into place, the force of it split his skin. 

Even without seeing it, Javert feels sick at the thought of Valjean’s blood spilling onto the white snow. When he runs his fingers over Valjean’s palm, he can feel where the dry dirt dusted across Valjean’s palms gives way to slick, wet blood. 

Now, unsure how to give Valjean’s hand back to him, he doesn’t know why he asked to feel in the first place. What he expected, if not the sick drop in his stomach, imagining the pain stinging Valjean. 

Without thinking, he brings the hand to his face, unfolds Valjean’s fingers further, and kisses the cut, the way his mother used to kiss his own injuries. 

That can’t have been good for her. A child in a jail, who knew what diseases lingered on Javert’s skin—but she did it anyway. It always made Javert feel recklessly loved, unstoppably. 

Some of the blood and dirt comes away on his lips, and he can taste them on his tongue. 

Valjean, his hand, and even his breathing goes absolutely still. The air itself feels taut, dangerous. A loaded gun. 

“You should clean this,” Javert says, and then drops Valjean’s hand. 

“I could use your help,” Valjean says, but he says it so quietly, Javert can pretend he didn’t hear it. Valjean will do just fine on his own, and they both know it. 

Why Valjean would want Javert’s touch anyway, he doesn’t know, but he thinks about it all night. 

Four:

Hot chocolate.

Good chocolate is expensive, and a luxury besides, so they almost never get it. But on New Years’ Day, Javert smells chocolate from his room and wanders out, following his nose to where Valjean has melted some down, stirring slowly. Javert can hear the trickle and hiss of milk being added.

“Is Cosette coming?” Javert asks, coming close enough to the pot that the steam warms his face. 

“No,” Valjean says, “this is for you.”

“And for you?” Javert pushes, feeling warm. He steps away from the steam, closer to Valjean instead, but the warmth doesn’t fade. Their shoulders press together, they stay together, and Javert feels himself get warmer and warmer and warmer. Valjean is bringing him to a boil. 

Valjean laughs quietly, a sort of gracious defeat. “And for me,” he allows.

Five:

Shaving lather.

Javert has never shaved blind before, but his whiskers are getting too long, and he has always preferred to keep them shorn short. He cuts them with scissors first, in order to get most of the hair off his face.

He borrows Valjean’s shaving kit, flushing when Valjean’s voice hiccups with laughter when he sees Javert’s uneven job with the scissors. 

“I wasn’t planning to leave it like this,” he says gruffly.

“You always look handsome,” Valjean tells him, his voice still uneven with hints of laughter, “You just look strange.”

Javert feels unsteady, a rush of longing hits him so suddenly, he loses his breath. You always look handsome. 

He thinks of stepping up closer to Valjean and… and… and doing what? He can picture his terrible mustache and that is enough to snap him out of it. 

He flees to his own room with the borrowed lather and razor, steadies his hands, and goes in blind.

The edges of his mouth get lather on them, pushed further as he drags the razor under his mouth, getting it watery and thin, runnier, able to follow the crevice of his mouth and bloom bitter between his lips. 

He’s so startled by the taste—terrible and sharp—that his hand jerks, nicking the underside of his jaw. He can’t see exactly where, but he can feel the sting of it: the cut and then the burn of the lather getting under his skin. 

Things Javert does not taste:

Valjean’s mouth. 

Valjean comes when he hears the slight sound of pain that slips out of Javert’s mouth when he cuts himself, and must see the trickle of blood, because he makes a small sound of distress himself. 

“Come,” Valjean says, “One good turn deserves another.”

“You have already done me more good turns than I could repay in what’s left of my lifetime.” Javert speaks the words clipped and fast, as if to counteract their sentiment, but Valjean is already taking hold of his hands, pulling him towards the kitchen. 

Valjeans firm hands drag a cloth across Javert’s face, first, tender and slow around the cut, faster and surer elsewhere. Back and forth, back and forth. Every few swipes, he folds the cloth over to get a clean patch. Javert taps his fingers on the counter, aware that this makes him seem impatient, but too jittery, full of an implacable restless energy from the touch of Valjean’s hand on the side of his face, to care if he comes across as rude. 

Then, over the smell of the soap comes the smell of clean sweat and fresh-cut wood. Valjean. 

Valjean’s whiskers brush his face, tickle the soft skin on the underside of his chin, making Javert’s breath catch, lest he let out a helpless, breathless laugh. Quickly, Valjean’s lips press to the cut. Chapped, gentle. 

Javert feels Valjean’s breath ghost over his neck, still cold and wet from the washing, as Valjean stays close for a fleeting moment. 

In that moment, Javert imagines what it might feel like to turn his face down, catch Valjean’s lips with his own. What it would feel like to reach out and pull Valjean impossibly closer. How would Valjean taste? Like the biscuits they had eaten earlier, after dinner? How would he feel? Soft? Firm? Wet? Dry? All of the above, perhaps. Actually, he would probably taste like tea, Javert thinks. They drank tea after they had the biscuits. He suddenly can’t quite remember. Maybe his mouth would only taste like skin.

Valjean breathes in, still close enough for Javert to feel it against his neck, like he’s trying to find Javert’s scent, and Javert breathes out at the same time. 

Both of them are shaky.

God thank you guys for the comments, I'm so so happy to receive them!!

OH my goodness I really thought I posted this last week—imagine my horror when I realize this was sitting there in "drafts"

Golly gee. Well please enjoy....


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


One:

A fair start.

He has always believed that everyone has their lot in life. Where people started didn’t matter, only where they ended up—even if it was harder for some than for others to get to where they wanted to go. 

Javert, for instance, was born in a jail, surrounded by the lowest of the human race, and rose to become a respectable police man, organized, efficient, known for his determination and integrity. Why couldn’t everyone rise like him?

If Javert could become so clean, then the boy born to a mother with no job and no home and no family could still find a way not to rob pedestrians. If Javert could become so clean, the girl with the too-tight corset could have avoided selling herself to any man who wanted her. 

It was only a matter of will.

If Javert could become so clean, teenage Valjean with his huddled, starving family could have found another way to get his hands on a loaf of bread, honest work. Or he could have not tried to run away, adding years to his sentence. 

But why couldn’t he just have had bread? What if he was running away to get back to his family, to see if they were still alive, if they had moved, if they still loved him even after his conviction.

They probably did. Javert used to not be able to imagine how one could love a convict. Now, he supposes, he’s a practiced hand at it. Personal experience. 

So he wishes everyone could start even. Then he would know that anyone low had fallen that low, rather than simply been born so low. 

“Is that ridiculous?” Javert asks when he talks to Valjean about it and Valjean laughs quietly.

“Yes,” says Valjean. “That is better than before, but that is not compassion.”

“I do not need compassion,” Javert scoffs. “I have my systems.”

“Systems have no room for human hearts.” Valjean’s voice is amused and fond nonetheless. “If you wish for us all to start the same, you can begin by considering us all the same where we already are.”

“No, not the thieves who choose to steal.” Javert means everyone, the thieves and the murderers and everyone else, but the thieves are the first ones to his tongue.

The frown on Valjean’s face is audible.“If a man starts with money and spends it rashly, does he deserve to starve, then?”

“Yes.” Javert frowns, too. “What is the meaning of choice if it has no consequence?”

“What about forgiveness?”

Two: 

His sight back. 

Though he’s gotten used to not being able to see, and better at using his other senses to understand his world, there are still moments when he aches to see color again, sharp angles and flowing lines. 

One of these moments is when Cosette insists on buying Valjean a new coat for Easter. Because, she says, he never buys anything for himself, and most of what he wears is still functional but visibly worn, sometimes patched at the elbows or re-stitched at the seams. 

“I wish you could see him,” Cosette sighs to Javert as she makes Valjean turn around for her in his new coat. “He looks so handsome.”

“I don’t doubt it,” Javert mutters. It hasn’t even been a year since he jumped into the Seine, so Valjean’s appearance can’t have changed much. He probably looks even better than Javert ever saw him, finally free of Javert and his handcuffs always breathing down his neck. He wishes, now, he could see the coat, its fit around Valjean’s shoulders, how it looked against his snowy white curls. “Describe it to me.”

For a second, Cosette seems taken aback by this request, quiet for a beat. “It’s green,” she says, hesitant, “and it fits, for once. Stitched with gold.”

“It’s too much,” Valjean says from in front of them, but Javert can hear how touched he is. “It’s very… new.”

“It is new, Papa,” Cosette says, exasperated and fond. “That’s the whole point.”

How Javert wishes he could see it. It’s green, and it fits, and it’s stitched with gold.

Three: 

That he were better at articulating his feelings, or at least brave enough to try.

It isn’t only that tumbling feeling in his stomach that he gets when Valjean is near that he struggles so much to put into words—though that is definitely an issue—but everything else as well.

When Valjean wakes him from yet another nightmare, he stays until Javert is calm, as he always does. Then he asks, “Does it help? My presence? I thought perhaps—but then I thought it might only make things worse.”

Javert shakes his head, hair rustling on the pillow. “It helps,” he says. He doesn’t quite know how to express the way Valjean makes him feel when he wakes with a warm, steady palm pressed to his back. It isn’t just that Valjean has woken him from sleep, giving him an escape from his night terrors. It’s also Valjean, and his wood scent, and his strong arms and low, even voice. “It’s a comfort to have you here,” he ends up adding, which is true, but not the whole truth. 

It’s only a week later when he realizes Valjean makes him feel safe, but at that point, it feels too late to revive the conversation just to add this. What would Valjean even do with the information? He just wishes he’d been able to say it at the time. He wishes Valjean could understand what he does for Javert, just by pressing his arm and sitting there in the dark. 

Four:

To live with Valjean for the rest of his life.

It won’t be a long time, he figures. Valjean is getting on in the years, and Javert isn’t young himself—but he longs for it. To spend the rest of his days with his hands in the soil of Valjean’s garden, poking holes and dropping in seeds, throwing the last overripe oranges from the tree into the compost heap where worms will turn it slowly into more rich soil for the plants. To go on walks with Valjean and quietly deride him for spending so much time and money giving things away for free, but helping to pass them out all the same. Chopping vegetables by touch for Valjean to cook, and getting read to by the fire at night. 

“Now that I can survive on my own,” Javert begins over dinner one night, as spring rain drums above them, “Perhaps it is time I move out.”

The clink of Valjean’s spoon against his bowl ceases. “Move out?” His voice is blank with surprise. 

“I cannot continue to live off of your charity.” Javert isn’t sure why he has to explain. He has lived in Valjean’s home for three quarters of a year, and done nothing but eat Valjean’s food and monopolize his time. He has no income. He is not even consistently polite. 

Valjean makes a noise of protest, bordering on wordless frustration, as if he doesn’t even know quite where to start. “Javert,” he begins, slowly, “I enjoy your company. I do not think you must move out. If you want to… I will not stop you, however much I may wish to. But I am glad to have you here, you must know it.” 

“I can offer you nothing,” Javert murmurs, and it sounds much more like a confession of something else than a statement of fact. 

Valjean makes another quiet noise of disagreement. “You are enough for me,” he says, and that, too, sounds like a confession. Perhaps Javert is silly in his hope. “And I do not like to think of you out in the streets. Pickpockets will find you an easy target.”

Mostly blind, aging, and with the air of an officer that Javert has found he cannot drop, no matter how hard he tries, pickpockets will be the least of his concerns, he knows. Valjean is avoiding saying the more glaring problems: it will be incredibly hard to find work, and take time to find his way from place to place, even to learn the geography of a rented apartment. 

They talk about it more as Javert brings the dirty dishes to the kitchen, arguing over his shoulder. “I would not be so selfish as to impose—”

“You’re neither selfish, nor imposing anything,” Valjean cuts him off firmly, closer to Javert than he would’ve guessed. He places a hand on Javert’s shoulder, turns him around so that they’re facing each other. “I’m the one being selfish. I want you here.”

Javert’s stunned silent. He opens his mouth, but can’t find any words. “I want to be here,” he blurts, late and too loud, just as Valjean’s pulling his hand away. 

He doesn’t mean for that to be the end of the conversation—just because they both want it doesn’t mean it’s fair—but somehow it is. 

Five:

For someone to describe what they are seeing in detail, the way books describe scenes: the colors and the shapes, the movement. He doesn’t just want to know where the cabinets are, and who has arrived at the door when there’s a knock and then the whining of rusted hinges. He wants to know what they’re wearing, whether they’re smiling, if the cabinets are a bright, robin’s egg blue or a dark, faded brown. 

He imagines it all narrated to him in Valjean’s voice: it snowed last night. Everything is now clean, round, and white. I see a bird’s three-pronged footsteps in the snow that’s caught on the windowsills, but everything else is smooth. The icicle that hangs from the roof is probably longer than your truncheon now, Javert. You could use that instead. It’s only for show, isn’t it? 

It’s so silly, letting Valjean run on like this in his head. Javert lets it run on and on as he drifts to sleep, as if counting sheep. 

Things Javert does not wish for:

For Valjean to come to him on a night without nightmares and give him what he wants. 

He doesn’t think about it any further than that. 

Thanks again for all the comments!! Even if I haven't responded, I've read them and they bring me a lot of joy. Thank you all!! <3 Sorry again for the late chapter!

It's the final chapter—what do you think happens?

I hope you enjoy the last chapter!!! I definitely really enjoyed writing this one.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


One:

A cold blade against his skin.

They give blankets and food to the poor, bundled in scarves, coats, and hats. They pluck oranges from the tree. Valjean tells him what to cut, and when, and which pots to stir, and like this, they cook together. Valjean takes out his Bible before breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and reads a few passages that Javert has heard him quote from memory before.

It is a day just like any other. 

And then Valjean goes and turns everything upside down. 

When Javert steps outside to fetch something, then comes back in, taking off his hat, Valjean reaches out and brushes his fingers along the side of Javert’s face. “It’s getting long again,” he remarks.

Javert knows this. He can feel the hair on his face when he runs his hand over it; he doesn’t need Valjean to tell him.

“I can shave for you,” Valjean offers, quiet, in his ear. A shiver runs through Javert. He wonders if it’s perceptible. “I don’t want you to hurt yourself again.”

“If you must.”

Javert sits on a chair, Valjean kneels in front of him with water, soap, and the razor, fingers pressing firmly against Javert’s jaw to keep him steady. 

The soap is cold, the tips of Valjean’s fingers like pinpricks of heat, turning his face this way and that as he works slowly across Javert’s face. 

Javert is aware of everything he does: how he breathes, when, and how deeply. Trying not to breathe too much, he keeps his intake slow and shallow, his exhale light enough that Valjean won’t feel the air against his hand. He ends up short on oxygen, trying to drag in as much air as he can without drawing attention to how he’s breathing, without letting his chest lift and fall too dramatically. 

“Javert,” Valjean says gently. The warmth from his hands disappears. “Are you alright?”

“Yes.” Javert doesn’t do or say anything else. 

He holds himself perfectly still when Valjean goes back to shaving. He has to stop focusing on the warmth of Valjean’s touch, which takes on a liquid quality and flows through him, making his whole body hum. He instead follows the cold swipe of metal against his skin, careful and confident, and the cool feeling of air against the freshly exposed skin. He follows the swish of water as Valjean swirls the razor around, rinsing it clean. 

When it’s over, he feels newborn: shaky, wet and cold and fresh, full of wonder. 

Two:

Valjean’s mouth. 

As the weather becomes hotter, they shed their coats. Sometimes, when they walk by each other, their arms brush and Javert realizes Valjean has rolled up his shirtsleeves, leaving the skin of his arms bare. They’re warm, prickling with hair. Thinking about them makes Javert clutch the counter to keep his breathing steady. It isn’t hard to realize that Valjean isn’t trying very hard to stay out of his way, completely uncaring if they brush by each other like this. 

In fact, if he thinks about it long enough, it seems almost as if Valjean is trying. There are moments when it feels like it isn’t Javert’s imagination at all, this thing, heavy and tense, between them. 

When they stumble in through the doorway, sweat beading their brows after their morning walk, shedding all the layers that are proper but extremely uncomfortable, Javert realizes they would never have done this when he first began to stay with Valjean. Pulling off their coats at the door, yes. But Valjean sheds his outer shirt as soon as the door closes behind them. Javert, for all his proper manners, follows suit. 

“I’m grateful,” Javert begins one night, when they’re standing outside in the warm evening sunset. Valjean is telling him what it looks like: streaks of orange, yellow, and gray with traces of blue still hovering behind it. 

“If you had told me you wanted this, I would have always done it.”

It takes Javert a moment to figure out that Valjean’s talking about describing the sunset.

“No, for… all of this,” Javert clarifies. “For the life that I have here. With you.”

“I am too,” Valjean says, which is silly, because he is the one who has provided the life they now have. “I hope it is enough. The quiet way we live.”

“With you,” Javert says again, “yes.”

“And you are happy with the way we… are?” There is something searching in Valjean’s voice, something that suggests he knows something he’s not saying. 

Javert has a hunch what it is. “Are you?” he asks, turning towards Valjean’s voice, his heart suddenly skipping. 

“Javert.” The trembling way Valjean says it is like liquor. It steals the thoughts from Javert’s brain, the logic from his movements. 

He reaches for Valjean before he can change his mind and leans close, until he feels Valjean’s warm forehead against his own. Valjean is leaning too, he must be. He wasn’t this near a moment ago. 

It’s an act of trust to turn his head and part his lips without being able to see, the way Javert does. Without knowing what Valjean is doing, where he is looking, or what his eyes say. 

But he is right, anyway.

Valjean’s mouth turns into his own, open and soft. His lips are dry, but not for very long. Javert thinks he breathes out, unevenly, into the kiss. He isn’t sure. He isn’t paying attention to anything anymore, nothing but the points at which Valjean is touching him. 

Valjean says, “If you had told me you wanted this, too, I would have always done it.” 

Three:

Valjean’s scars, raised and rough, in long lines across the skin of his back. 

They don’t do anything but sleep side by side, though Javert wishes it were more. Valjean says it is for Javert’s nightmares, and sure enough, Javert wakes peacefully with the sun to find Valjean still snoring softly beside him, neither of them jolted by midnight screams. 

The sun streams through the windows, seeps into the floorboards, stains the air with sweat, until they shed everything but their underclothes when they undress for sleep. They curl into each other despite the heat, never speaking much of it, hands wandering across skin without any specific intent. 

Once, Javert slips his hand over Valjean’s shoulder, a swell of muscle that he can’t stop running his hands over, dragging his fingers over Valjean’s back.

He’s never seen Valjean’s bare back, not that he can remember. It startles him, though it shouldn’t, to find the scar tissue there, harder than normal skin. He knows Valjean’s past, knows what’s happened to him. He’s only momentarily forgotten what’s left of it, the traces of Toulon that will never fade. 

Valjean jerks away from him quickly, so quickly that Javert pulls his hand away, too, alarmed. He’s fascinated, though, by the way those long ridges move under his hand, fluid and smooth, just like skin, for that one moment before his palm is cold, touching nothing but air. 

“Don’t,” Valjean says thickly. It’s harsher than Javert has ever heard Valjean speak before, frighteningly so. It puts Javert in mind of the snarl he would have leveled at Javert when they were both young, back in prison—bared teeth, wild eyes, muscles rippling and tense. 

“I apologize,” Javert blurts, though he doesn’t have enough time to think about the words, to mean them. It just seems like the thing he’s supposed to say, the thing he needs to say to calm Valjean down. He yearns for Valjean’s body up against his again, for Valjean to relax again, until their chests brush as they breathe together. 

Afterwards, he wishes he hadn’t said that. He wishes he had said something better, something different. Something about how he wishes to learn every inch of Valjean’s skin, even his scars. Something about how he wishes he could heal each one with his mouth and his fingertips. He wants to touch Valjean everywhere, even in the places Valjean won’t think about. 

Instead, he kisses Valjean’s neck, his chest, and the corner of his mouth. He makes sure his hands never stray over Valjean’s shoulder again. 

Four: 

Valjean inside him.

They wake up next to each other, hard or on their way, many times before either of them talks about it. Sometimes, they move against each other without taking off their underclothes, draped in a sheet and gasping into each other’s mouths, until they collapse into each others’ arms, their thighs messy. 

It’s as if when they throw off the sheet, they throw off the sex, too. They let it drop away from who they are, cleaning themselves as if someone else got them dirty, as if someone spilled milk on them during the night. 

They don’t talk at all about touching each other. 

Sometimes Javert can hear Valjean whispering prayers, or the fragile sound of thin Bible pages turning, and turning, and turning. 

Their mouths move lower, gradually, over many weeks. From necks and chests to stomachs, hips. They uphold an unspoken plausible deniability, never craning so low enough, dramatically enough, that it would be impossible to pass it off as wandering kisses with no aim. 

And then they start to talk about it. Awkward, fumbling conversations, embarrassing ones. Whether they ought to just take everything off, because they know they’re going to get it dirty in the morning. Whether their knees will hurt on the floor if they kneel to reach, and if a folded blanket or pillow will make it any better. Whether Javert can reach to touch himself at the same time, whether Valjean can move his hips, and how fast. 

Valjean reads them the Bible every night, the folktales and philosophy books nowhere to be found. He starts praying for longer in the mornings. When Javert mentions it, Valjean can’t really explain why.

“I’m not asking for forgiveness,” he promises, and he sounds certain of it. Valjean is a good liar, Javert knows, but not a frequent one. He only lies when he must, like when he became mayor, when he had to protect Cosette, when Javert followed him from town to town with his truncheon. 

“What are you asking for, then?” Javert asks.

“I don’t know.” Valjean closes the Bible with a thump. “Guidance.”

Valjean gets on his knees to pray, and then he gets on his knees until Javert comes, his hands tangled tight in Valjean’s hair. 

Later, Valjean says, “There is nothing wrong with what we’re doing,” as if it is a statement, but Javert hears the question in it.

“There is nothing wrong with what we’re doing,” Javert says, also like a statement. To him, it is, for the most part. He hasn’t found something else to live by, not since the law lost its hold on him. Even though he knows it’s silly, Valjean is his North Star, at least for now. 

They take everything off so they don’t get things dirty in the morning. They fold up a blanket so that it doesn’t hurt so much when they get on their knees. Javert touches himself. Valjean moves his hips. 

One night, Valjean closes his Bible and turns to Javert. “Can we try something?” he asks.

When they go to bed, they try many things. Eventually, something works.

Five:

The rumble of Valjean’s voice, deep in his chest, when they read together. 

Valjean has stopped reading only the Bible. He reads more philosophy now, whether it is there is moral value to something that hurts no one, how much one is obligated to others, how much one may be obligated to himself, also. 

Javert leans into Valjean even when he isn’t sleepy, now, and sometimes, when he can’t help it, kisses Valjean’s neck, his cheek, his jaw. He places his head against Valjean’s chest so his ear is pressed flat, and he can hear the words Valjean’s reading as if from inside and outside at once. When Valjean’s voice drags low, he feels it vibrate. He can feel Valjean’s laugh, a hearty belly laugh, and his heartbeat, steady and strong.

Things Javert does not feel—for a time: 

Valjean’s scars. 

It’s a long time before Valjean lets him. For weeks beforehand, Javert begins to think that if he asked, Valjean would let him. If he just let his hand fall there, Valjean wouldn’t push his hand away, either. 

But he doesn’t do either of those things. He’s better than that. 

In his mind, he creates a physical line he cannot cross—he will not touch anything on the back of Valjean’s body. If he were to cut Valjean evenly lengthwise, parallel to his shoulders—that is the line he will not let his fingers breach. Not over his arm, or his side, or the back of Valjean’s neck. He places his hands flat on Valjean’s chest, or curled around Valjean’s face, but never farther back. He doesn’t know the landscape of Valjean’s scars, and he does not know when he might accidentally brush one of them. He keeps his hands away from Valjean’s wrists, too, remembering the bloodied chafing of the heavy metal chains. 

One night, they are lying together, their clothes neatly folded on a nearby chair, their sheets messily tangled around their ankles and bunched unevenly under their hips, coming down from the high, Valjean takes one of Javert’s hands and places it on his back. 

Javert stills. His languid movements stops. His breathing stops. For a moment, his heartbeat stops. He keeps his hand there, the ridges pressed against his flat palm. 

“It’s okay,” Valjean whispers. 

“Turn over,” Javert whispers back. 

Valjean rolls over without protest. Javert can feel him breathe. 

Slowly, he runs his hand over the landscape of suffering, a story written onto Valjean’s skin. He feels so grateful to be given this that he doesn’t know what to do with himself. Words can’t do it, only touch comes close. 

He presses his mouth to Valjean’s back, gentle and close-lipped. A feathery kiss, like his mother used to kiss his scrapes. 

“Can I?” he asks, and Valjean says yes.

Thank you guys so much for all your lovely comments throughout—I've always looked forward to reading them and they make my day!! I'm so happy to be able to have such a lovely, enthusiastic group of people to bring this last chapter to!!