Title: In Weakness There is Strength
Work ID: 49078705
Author: ShadedTopaz
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: BDSM
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Who could the masked man be...

Work text:

Valjean tilted the rim of his hat upwards as he took in the grime encrusted Gorbeau Tenement. It seemed fate, inescapable, that he continued to circle this place like a crow that had found a peaceful garden, but still foraged in the gutters. A familiar face peered through the window, wrinkles and grey hair, the principal tenant. She gave him a disparaging look and shut the curtains to him. Valjean continued down Rue de l’Ouest to a slim doorway that led to even slimmer stairs upward. They groaned and squeaked under his footsteps, rotten and warped wood.

To think that a place like this had been so close to his first lodgings in Paris. Bishop’s candlesticks in tow, he'd been looking for a place where he could be at peace for a time, to plan out the next years of his life. Didn’t care where. Twenty years in the chain gang - he’d needed to be strong. He’d needed to survive. Survive - for what? He didn’t know. He needed time to figure it out - to digest the Bishop’s words, to find himself again.

Even without the whip on his back, Valjean had to kill himself for a loaf of bread, carting barrels, digging sewers, paid half what other workers were paid because of that piss yellow paper. Strangely, it wasn't his newfound 'freedom' that drove him onward - it was Javert’s words stuck in his head - You’ll be back in here in a year. His face - mercilessly confident, eyes that stared down at him despite their difference in height, his barrel chest proudly puffed out. The same as when he’d had him over the lukewarm chafing dish. Javert didn’t need his dick inside of a prisoner to make cold shivers run down his spine.

The memory stirred his body and disgusted him in equal measures. What had he become?

He continued up the stairs.

A choice confronted him at the top - a whitewashed wall with two signs, the untreated wood chipped and splintering, the paint on the sides faded and written with a sloppy and uncaring hand.

‘<-- Actif’, ‘Passif -->’.

Simple words, a simple choice.

In the times before, would Valjean have chosen differently? Would he have even been to a place like this? He barely remembered himself - before he stole that loaf of bread. But his need at that time, struggling to put one foot in front of the other, seeking any work that would pay him even a sous, was the same as the need now that he was independently wealthy and a father: he was tired of being strong.

He turned right.

It didn't happen all the time. Just sometimes, the world could be too much.

Inside, an attendant operated a locker for a few sous, sold and rented implements and toys not available in the main area. He put a basin up on the counter which contained only two objects: a mask and a towel.

Valjean placed a franc piece on the counter and took the basin to the nearby bench. There was noone else in this antechamber at the moment, but he could already detect sounds from the next room: manly grunts and gasps of pleasure, the sound of a whip, shouted commands and humble platitudes.

The attendant clearly remembered that he'd placed down a franc last time too. The higher value coin bought him a mask of black velvet with obsidian rhinestones around the edges, holes which revealed the eyes, a structure that caressed the cheek bones, but left ample space for the mouth. Valjean disrobed, his jacket first and hat, then he pulled out his cravat and undid the buttons of his shirt. Fumbling at the side buttons of his trousers betrayed his already half mast member. He did away with the rest of his clothes, and placed the mask on his face.

The attendant gave him a quick once over when he returned the basin to the locker, wordlessly took it from him and jerked his head towards the opening to the next room.

A heavy crimson curtain barred the way. Valjean slipped it aside with his hand, the smooth and rough texture of linen across his flesh was as arousing as foreplay, and he took his time with it. He had all night, Cosette slept like a rock and wouldn’t miss him if she happened to wake. It was a faux pas to touch the curtain with his cock, cost extra for materials, but usually the other side paid for that depending on what they fancied. For Valjean, it wasn’t about the money, it was about the mystery, being at the whim of someone else’s pleasure.

Ready now, he let himself in.

The unveiled scene was to be expected. Couples and multiples clustered in corners of the room, interacting with implements or just fucking. White masks fucked black masks, black masks sucked off white. Not too crowded, just crowded enough to excite him further. He looked around for somewhere to position himself, and began to investigate a swing made of leather. Waiting.

“Do you think that I would be so kind as to let you have a seat?”

Valjean turned to see a man - skin glimmering charcoal, dark eyes burning beneath a mask that was the white to his dark velvet. Barrel chested and muscled, his legs strong and thick. His own cock was as yet unhardened. Valjean met his eyes. It couldn’t be, could it?

“On your knees, slave, and you’ll not look me in the eye again.”

“Yes sir.” Valjean sank to his knees.

“Closer!” the man demanded.

Valjean slid his knees forward to approach. “May I help you, sir?” He offered. His mouth was wet with saliva at the thought of taking that cock into his mouth. How he managed to keep it under control in a place like this, must have a will as strong as steel.

The man’s face pressed against his before Valjean realised he’d closed the distance, dark eyes burning into his skull. “Did I instruct you to speak? Turn. Let me see your ass. You’ll feel the whip.”

Swallowing at the aggression, against the empty feeling against the top of his mouth where a slowly stiffening cock should be, Valjean turned, still on his knees. His own cock was throbbing hard. He felt leather caress the scars on his back, scars from the prison hulks, from Javert’s pleasure and others’. Scratches from his prison mates and the guards, who laughed at pushing his strength down and beat him mercilessly if he fought.

Powerlessness was easy. The pain faded. He was already broken.

The whip cracked against his shoulders and he gasped in pain and pleasure.

“Your ass!”

He’d forgotten. Valjean put his towel on the ground and leant his arms against it, presenting his asshole upwards for inspection. The whip slapped at his ass cheeks, and he gasped again, felt his asshole contract. He felt something against his opening, something which was not a cock. Too hard. He fought the urge to turn.

“Do you want to know what it is?”

“Yes please.”

Pain against his shoulder as a string of glass balls slapped against it, clinking sweetly against each other as they came to rest.

“I’m going to put something on your head. If it falls down I’ll be most unsatisfied.”

Valjean nodded.

It was a piece of paper. The man slipped it underneath the cord of his mask so that Valjean could not see it. When he reached forward to make sure it was secure, Valjean felt the hard cock rest against the crease of his ass. The balls on his shoulder retracted, clinking with each measured movement, smooth, though he could feel the tension in the man’s thighs against his.

The whip came down again. Valjean twitched against the man’s cock, hard and strong. And again and again, the sting in his back fading into ebbing pleasure as he gyrated against that cock, his ass stretching for a tip it couldn’t quite reach.

What it found instead was a glass ball. Valjean gasped and then moaned when his ass tightened around it. The whip came down again. Convulsions of those muscles struggled with whether to reject the foreign object or draw it in more. It was in just far enough in to feel good. He felt the man’s balls against the bottom of his ass, his cock still firmly in the crease.

“Take it out,” Valjean begged. “Fuck me.”

The whip came down again. He barely felt the pain now, it was only sweet, sweet as the thighs that were now gleaming with sweat, pressed close to him, sweet as the contraction of his ass muscles against the ball.

The ball popped out from his ass. Valjean moaned with the absence.

Before he could recover himself, the man slapped his ass. “Only because it suits me,” he grunted, and thrust deep inside of him.

It should have been a matter of pride to outlast his Actif, but Valjean’s cock has been leaking precum since he’d first seen the man in the white mask. He tried to adjust his position, but the man adapted, keeping up the pressure while he grunted with each thrust. Someone beside them came, and it was too much. Valean shuddered around that cock, but his Actif didn't stop. Each thrust become more and more painful until he felt the heat of the man’s release, his determined groans as he gave a few extra thrusts to strangle every last drop into Valjeans ass.

The man stayed there for a moment, panting and gasping, struggling to do another thrust with his quickly loosening member. Then he withdrew, a flight of wind against Valjean’s flesh marking his departure.

Valjean gave himself a moment to recover, cleaned up his leaking cock with the towel, wiping the sweat down. When he went to the locker, he found that he’d forgotten all about the paper, still attached to his head.

A wanted poster for the criminal Jean Valjean. Armed and Dangerous.

Well, certainly not today, Valjean thought wryly, looking down at his naked body. Slowly, he retrieved his clothes and went out into the early morning. As he walked, his steps took on a more robust pace, and his shoulders more forward.

He was ready to face strength once more.