Title: Hopeful mistake
Work ID: 49603933
Author: TheBrothersGrimm
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Sickfic, Gen or Pre-Slash, Madeleine Era, posably OOC Javert, Tags Are Hard, this is my first upload. still figureing this out, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Rated teen just to be safe
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert get sick after working in a storm that has lasted all day. Valjean as Madeleine comes across him after a meating and takes him in to makesure he's taken care of. Hopefully, things aren't as he feared between the criminal and its hunter.
This is my first upload, any helpful criticisms are welcome =D

Work text:


The snow outside the window is a beautiful sight. Jean Valjean was looking out into the town from his office. It has been eight years since he came to Montreuil-sur-mer under the name Madeleine and was forced to become the mayor a year or two later. The past -he thought- is all but buried; a new, respected name that everyone trusts. It was a peaceful, but withdrawn life. That was until a year ago, when the one person that knew what he really was came crashing back into his life, threatening to tear everything down. 



His name was Javert, nothing more, nothing less. He was a guard at Toulon for the last eight years that he spent his time there. And now, he came back to haunt every turn with paranoia. What made matters worse, is he suspects the truth. Ever since the cart, he had an untrusting and searching look in his eye. The only reason he hasn't been called out is because of his status as his superior. And what that man lacks in heart, he makes up for in loyalty. 



A gust of wind clears the snowfall enough to see the man himself walking down the street towards his factory. Jean steps away from the window, sitting back down at his desk and prepares for seeing Javert. Like clockwork, there's three calculated knocks on the door.



"Come in, Inspector."



Javert steps in. Dressed in a greatcoat and hat -that he took off when he entered- he's about half-a-head shorter than him, but he doesn't need to be towering to paint an intimidating picture. His eyes are like ice, and the sideburns on his cheeks don't give off a friendly demeanor. Javert situates himself in front of Valjeans desk, rod-straight and shoulders squared, arms behind his back. 



"Monsieur le Maire." Javert says, slightly bowing before starting the daily report. During the tellings, Valjean saw him slightly swaying, his face pale and cheeks flushed. He eventually notices Javert clearing his throat every so often. He puts a hand up, stopping Javert.



"Sorry to interrupt, Inspector, but… are you ok?"



Javert tensed, and his eyes couldn't quite make eye contact, like they normally do. 



"Yes, Monsieur. I'm perfectly fine."



Valjean looks over the inspector once more before glancing out the window at the blowing snow. He waves his hand for Javert to continue the report. Even if the report was short and to the point, his condition seemed to worsen the longer the man was on his feet. When the report was done and Javert was leaving, he could see that he was shaky. Despite himself, Valjean was slightly worried for the inspector. It was storming outside and the day was only starting. 



He was his own man, Jean. He can take care of himself.



He apparently couldn't. Because when he closes up the factory, he catches a glimpse of Javert running around the corner yelling about a thief. It's still storming, and he has a sneaking suspicion that he has been outside the whole day. Following the coattail, he catches the inspector leaning off to the side, out of breath. The puffs of breath are short and shallow. Walking up behind him, he places a hand on his shoulder. Javert tenses, whips around, and grabs Valjean’s wrist. 



Javert is clearly unstable on his feet now and eyes unfocused. His eyes move around his face to place who he is. When he does, his eyes slightly widen and he drops his wrist like it burned him.



"Apologies, I didn’t notice it was you.”



Valjean adjusts his sleeves, hoping Javert didn't notice the scars. It's a shameful nervous habit he picked up from his earlier years in Montreuil-sur-mer. Javert takes a shaky step back and tries to stand straight. His hazy eyes meet his as he nods his head.



"How can I help you, Monsieur Madeleine?" 



What was he planning on doing? His mind caught between reasonable self-preservation and concern for the Inspector. He adjusts his waistcoat before clearing his throat. He would have to word this carefully if he would get Javert to follow him home, or even get him to go to his own lodgings. 



"What are you doing out on a night like this, Javert?"



"A night like this never stops crime, so it won't stop me from doing my duty."



Of course he would say that; Javert was always steadfast in upholding the law. He was that way in Toulon and he seemed to keep that mentality. At a time, Valjean resented Javert because of that, that loyalty to the law that led to the cold man he grew to be; he still does, to an extent. He rubs his hands together, cold biting at the tips of his fingers. 



"Of course, Inspector. However, if you're free, do you mind joining me?"



The Inspector looked, hesitantly, to where Valjean suspected the thief got off to. He looked back to the makeshift mayor and squared his shoulders and stepped off to the side, gesturing for Valjean to start. He gives Javert a small, thankful smile before he starts to walk to his home. They walk side-by-side in silence, Valjean walking with misleadingly sure steps and Javert with poorly hidden shaky ones. Once he turned to the Inspector -now closer to his own home- to say goodnight, he noticed the unfocused glaze to his eyes and thought better than sending the man on his way.



Putting a hand on his back, this time no reaction from the normally closed off and jumpy man, and led him to a seat by the fire. He put a hand to Javert's head, only to pull it back. How is Javert even standing, he's burning up! It's a surprise that he didn't collapse during the walk here, or anywhere else for that matter!



"Javert, I'm going to grab a cloth. I don't feel it is good to let you walk back to your lodgings."



Javert merely nodded his head and leaned back in the chair. Valjean doubts that he'll remember this in the morning, but better to tell the inspector now if there was a chance. Valjean takes the other's hat, putting it on his table in passing, heading to the kitchen. 



When he got back with a basin of cold water and a cloth, Javert looked just about to fall asleep. Slumped in the chair much more than Valjean thought possible for the inspector, his face tucked into his chest, framed by the collar of his greatcoat. Eyes half lidded and lazily staring into the flames. 



"Javert?"



"Huh?"



Oh, he must really not be in his right mind. No matter who you were, Javert was never informal. Even in prison, he was cruel, but never informal. Foul-mouthed and often insulting, but formal to a point. Even more to a superior, and he considers Madeleine a superior. 



"Can you take off your coat, Inspector? Or do you need help?"



Instead of responding, the other just sends a blurry glare before clumsily sitting up and managing to almost fully take off his coat. Staying sat up, although he was slouching, he gave Valjean a glare. Valjean smiles at the action despite himself.



"Thank you." 



He moves to stand in front of the other man, seats the basin on the side table and soaks the cloth, ringing it out before carefully putting it on the inspector's brow. Javert slouches back into his original position, letting out an almost inaudible sigh, relishing in the cool cloth. 



Valjean lets out a huff of a laugh. He watches Javert's eyes slip close before slipping into the kitchen. He needed to distract himself, away from the only man that could ruin him -ruin Madeleine- that he 

willingly

 brought into his home. Make supper, that will help.


 


The crackle of a fire and the smell of something cooking stirs him from sleep. He tries to sit up, but his body seems too heavy, so he resigns to righting his slumped position to something a little more comfortable. Opening his eyes, he's met with- not his own, honestly a bit short of a home.



Most of the events from later in the day are confusing and bleary. The best he can remember is Monsieur le Maire taking pity on his foolish self. He led him back to his own home. 



"Oh, good morning, Inspector."



Javert looks to the voice, only to see-



The voice doesn't match the roughness of the face. The care and carefulness of the actions doesn't match the sheer strength behind the- the 

beast.

 His gentle eyes off nerve him. But he can't help the calmness that comes from the sight. 



The man -what Javert should call him, he doesn't know- sets down the tray of what he can only assume is supper down on the table. He tensed when the man walked to the fire, put a log in, then turned to him. 



“Are you feeling better? You almost didn’t make it here.”



Javert blinks only for the rough, dirty prisoner to be replaced with the kind-hearted mayor. He blinks a few more times to make sure the unsettling visage was gone. Only one more thing to be guiltily-suspicious about the too kind man. He clears his throat before responding.



"Yes, thank you, Monsieur."



Finding shaky, unsure strength he lifted himself to an appropriate sitting position. He makes a move to stand, before Madeleine intervenes, gently pushing -more like suggesting- him back down.



"I don't mean to force you, Javert." He says after Javert stares him down with an uncertain and defensive stare. "But the storm just stopped and I can't in good conscience send you out." 



He goes to make a rebuttal, but a cough cuts him off. Just a cough, nothing detrimental. That is before it escalated into a fit. Madeleine rushed to his side, rubbing his back to try and help. He's a too kind man. 



Javert pushed the mayor off of him, not needing to be coddled. 



"Thank you, Monsieur." He gritted through his teeth. The mayor simply jerked his hands away -still ready to help, but far enough to put Javert at ease- and after some hesitation he went to fetch the tray.



"Good."



Madeline says while he adjusts his sleeves. He fidgets with some silverware then picks it up and replaces the bason with the tray. There are two bowls there. When Javert occupied himself trying to get his feverish mind to put together why there were two, Monsieur le Maire placed the back of his hand to his forehead. 



"The fever hasn't broken yet…"He said, mostly to himself. The cool hand made him take notice of the heat behind his eyes. When the hand pulls back he has to keep himself from following.



"Food would be good for you, Inspector."



Madeleine promptly picks up the second bowl -answering Javert's question- and hands it to Javert. 


 


The confusion on Javert's face made it scrunch up in a way that was unlike the inspector. He hesitantly takes the soup and starts to eat, all while keeping his blurry eyes on him. Valjean takes his own bowl and starts to eat, keeping his gaze either on the soup or the hearth. 



They ate in silence. Valjean wonders what Javert saw when he first woke up. He could see the recognition in the gaze, and the confusion makes him wonder if he saw 24601. 



If so, bringing him here was a worse decision than he initially thought. The inspector -as good at his job as he was- already connected him and 24601 in his mind. Valjean can only hope that this wouldn't turn to the worst. 



They continued to eat the rest of the soup, he insists the inspector takes seconds, but was turned down with every gentle push. The rest of the night was interspersed with a feverish inspector and laps of clearness. Valjean can only guess that each time Javert's mind fogs over, he sees the convict. The strange thing was that he never seemed threatened (more than normal he means) with the vision. Yes, he tenses each time he gets close, but it is almost like the inspector sees the mayor as well. 



Come morning, the inspector was already gone when he left his room. He could only hope that Javert wouldn't read too much into his fevered visions. Hopefully, things aren't as he feared between the criminal and its hunter.
