Title: Javert's Attack
Work ID: 49675132
Author: fra12
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert/Other(s)
Additional Tags: Rape/Non-con Elements, Rape Recovery, Gang Rape, Hurt/Comfort, Crying, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Beating, Whipping, Angst, Power Play, Hand Jobs, Hair-pulling, Identity Issues, Panic Attacks, Oral Sex, Grinding, Praise Kink, Middle Aged Virgins, Dirty Talk, Blow Jobs, Anal Sex, Anal Fingering, Fluff
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 6/7

Summary:
Javert made a promise to Monsieur Madeleine that he would find the gang that was roaming the streets of Montreuil. Javert keeps his promise, but is brutally attacked, and left for dead on Madeleine's doorstep. Though Valjean fears the inspector, he decides to take him in and help him recover.

Work text:


Fear was not a familiar feeling to Inspector Javert. Spending years working in Toulon with many vicious criminals had mostly desensitized him. Sure, he could often feel adrenaline coursing through his body as he confronted criminals, but he was too focused, too determined to truly be frightened. Yet on this brisk night, as he stared down an alleyway at a gang of half a dozen criminals, Javert felt himself trembling with fear. He wanted to run, but he had given his word to Monsieur le Maire that he would get these scoundrels off the streets of his town. 



A week or so ago, Madeleine had summoned the Inspector to his factory. He reported that several of his employees had expressed concerns about a gang of men that were lurking around the streets of Montreuil at night, peering into windows and intimidating passersby. Javert was aware that there had been suspicious characters wandering about; he knew of several reports made to his officers about small items being stolen from the outside of homes. 




“I have prided myself on keeping Montreuil safe thus far during my tenure as mayor. Inspector, do I have your word that you and your men will search diligently for this gang before anyone gets hurt?” Madeleine had asked. 





“Yes, monsieur. You have my word,” Javert had replied. Though he had his suspicions about the mayor’s true identity, the law took precedence over his private investigations. 




Each night thereafter, Javert and his men had spread across the town, searching for any sign of this gang. Until this night, none of them had been found. It was presently around 2 in the morning, and Javert had sent his men home for the night. He had been walking home himself, when he heard a ruckus in an alleyway that drew his attention to the men. He was unsure what they were doing, though there were windows of homes and businesses that were their potential targets. 



Javert was not sure what overtook him, but a sense of dread filled his body. The men all looked abnormally large; similar in build to many of the most dangerous criminals at Toulon, only they had no chains to shackle them. He was certain this was the gang he was looking for. Gripping his cudgel, the inspector contemplated what to do. It would be foolish to try to wrangle them himself. His men were home for the evening, and even if he ran to one of his officer’s homes, the gang would probably be in the middle of a robbery or gone by the time they came back to the alleyway. 



Despite all these misgivings, Javert could not leave. He was the Inspector of the town, and he had given his word to the mayor that he would catch them. He could not, would not fail in his duty. Trembling, Javert slid his cudgel into his belt loop and grabbed his gun from the holster. He raised it and began walking toward the men. 



“Stop! You are all under arrest,” he shouted. 



The men all turned toward him, and Javert could see that there were indeed 6 of them. One of them scowled, “And who are you supposed to be?” 



Javert hated the way his voice trembled as he stated, “I am Inspector Javert of the Montreuil police force. I have received an order from Monsieur le Maire to put you all under arrest for theft and intimidation.” 



The same man laughed. “Oh, so you’re Monsieur’s bitch?” The men jeered at this, throwing more insults at Javert. 



Feeling a surge of anger, Javert shouted, “Get against the wall or I will shoot you!” 



Before Javert could think, the men rushed toward him. Javert pulled the trigger with his shaking hands, but he dreadfully missed, the bullet flying between the men and entering the wall at the end of the alley. One of the men grabbed him by his queue and slammed his head into the brick wall, sending his hat flying off. Reeling with pain and shock, Javert dropped his gun which one of them immediately picked up. While one man held his hair, another held him by his arms, while a third grabbed his cudgel and fished his handcuffs from his belt as well. Javert’s stomach sank as his gloves were peeled off and he felt the cold metal against his wrists. 



“I think you’re too pretty to be a police inspector. Are you sure you are not a whore wandering the streets in the night, dressed as an officer to avoid suspicions?” the man holding his hair jeered. 



“Look at his pretty hair and delicate body. Probably Monsieur le Maire’s whore,” laughed another. 



A wave of nausea hit Javert as he heard the way these men spoke of him. “You scoundrels! You have assaulted an officer of the law. Do you know the punishments you will receive for this?” 



The man who had taken his gun held it to his head. “You will shut up and do as we say, or we will blow your brains out and leave your naked body in the streets for all to see.” 



Javert trembled as the men holding his hair and arms led him out of the alleyway, the other man still pressing the gun to his temple.The three additional men trailed behind. “If you scream, I will shoot you, you stupid whore,” the gunman growled. 



Though the side of him that was logical told himself that he needed to compose himself, Javert’s mind raced as he tried to decide what he should do. Javert could accept dying, but he could not accept humiliation. If the men really did what they threatened if he resisted, the whole town would find his naked body tomorrow morning, bruised, beaten, probably 

raped

. Though most of the town would be horrified, the criminal underbelly would rejoice. His officers would see the awful things that happened to him; they would be the ones to examine his brutalized body. They would stare and gawk at his violation. Monsieur le Maire, if he was who Javert suspected, would show his outward shock but would probably take quiet satisfaction. The worst part is everyone would know he failed. The only thing he could do to avoid this humiliation, this horror, was to plead for his life. 



“Please don’t kill me,” Javert pleaded with a shaky voice. “If you wish to rob me, I’ll lead you to my home. You can take what you want.” 



“Oh, we will take what we want,” replied the gunman. “But I doubt there’s anything in your home we want as much as your body,

 Inspector

.” 



Javert’s blood ran cold. So they were going to rape him. “I will comply, but please let me live,” he said, his voice coming out as nearly a sob. 



The man holding his hair gave it a slight tug. “If you’re good for us, you will not die,” he replied. Javert nodded, swallowing bile he felt rising in his throat. 



The men were leading him away from the homes and businesses to the pitch black park. Normally alive during the day, it was completely isolated at night. The perfect spot to commit such heinous acts. No one would see or hear anything. 



Reaching the edge of the park, near the tree line that led to a small forest, the men shoved him to the ground. Javert landed on his back, his cuffed wrists aching as they felt the impact of his weight. The men wasted no time removing his boots and slacks, leaving his lower half exposed in the moonlight. 



“Look how small his cock is,” one of the men laughed. He nudged his shoe against it, making Javert jump at the faint pain. 



“Surely you don’t fuck with your cock, Inspector?” the gunman asked, squatting down to make eye contact with Javert. Javert looked away, trembling with shame. Apparently this was not the response the gunman wanted, as he hit Javert’s face with the butt of the gun. “I asked you a question, bitch. Do you fuck with your little cock?” 



“No,” Javert whimpered, his head throbbing. He felt blood start to trickle down his face. 



“I didn’t think so. You were made to be fucked. But we’ll get to that shortly. We’d like to play with your toys first. One of you get the belt from his pants.” The gunman grabbed Javert by an arm, hard enough to bruise as he forced him to lay on his stomach. 



The men took turns whipping his ass and thighs viciously with his belt until Javert was sobbing into the grass. “Please monsieurs, have mercy,” he cried. 



“Fine,” a man replied. “We shall switch to the cudgel then.” Javert was grabbed and flipped over, laying on his back. The men took turns hitting the front of his thighs with the cudgel. The men who were not using the weapon would occasionally lean down to slap his face, or kick him in the ribs, or slap his cock. 



Javert’s mind was blank, all he could do was beg to God, to someone, that these men would not beat him to death. “Why are you doing this?” Javert cried after a particularly hard kick to the ribs. “Please, I’ll do what you want.” 



“Well, Inspector, frankly, we want to send a message. To you, and the police force, and to your precious mayor. We are not ones to be reckoned with and we will not go down without a fight,” the gunman replied, squatting down next to Javert. This man seemed to be the de facto leader. Javert tried to focus his eyes in the darkness to memorize his features. “That’s enough,” he barked at the man currently holding the cudgel. 



The gunman turned to Javert, a sickening smile on his face. Abruptly, he shoved two fingers in his mouth. “Get them nice and wet. That is all you will get to ease the way.” 



Javert gagged slightly, both from the fingers, and the thought of what would happen to him. He did his best to produce saliva, drool starting to run down his chin. After the man removed his fingers, he did not hesitate to shove Javert’s legs apart and stuff his fingers directly into his hole. The inspector cried out at the sudden intrusion. The pain was almost more than he could bear. 



“You are too tight,” the man said, attempting to scissor his fingers. “You will suffer even more damage if you don’t relax.” 



“Relax?” repeated Javert incredulously. He wanted to say so much more. 

You’re raping me. You’ve threatened to kill me. How could I possibly relax? 

But he was too weak to speak. He felt as if the wind had been knocked from him after being kicked so many times. Every slight movement made him ache. 



The man motioned to one of the others. “Come, tease his little cock. That should get him to open up more.” 



Javert wanted to move away from the dirty hand that grasped his penis, but the man penetrating him was holding his waist. To his horror, the hand that gently rubbed and stroked him started to bring a tingle of pleasure. He had never been touched by another before. It only took a few strokes for him to finish. He wailed, spraying on his own uniform jacket. 



“Monsieur Inspector is so sensitive,” the man who touched him laughed. “Barely took three strokes to make him cum.” 



“Good,” the man fingering him replied. “He’s relaxed enough that I can fit my third finger inside.” 



Javert wished his arms were free so he could cover his face. He had never been so humiliated in his life. Though the beating had been brutal, it was nothing compared to this torture, this awful mixture of mortification and pain and pleasure. His hole was loose enough that the man drove his fingers into a spot inside of him that made Javert see stars. He couldn’t help the whimper that escaped his mouth, and felt his oversensitive penis twitch and attempt to get hard again. He could not believe this, it was as if he was stuck in a horrific nightmare. 



Finally, the man seemed satisfied with how well Javert had opened up. He removed his fingers, and crawled over so that he was laying on top of his captor. The gun was still in his hand, which he pressed to Javert’s temple. “Don’t scream. Don’t try to fight me. I will shoot you. And you will be found in the morning, naked and covered in your own spend. What will people think of you then, Javert? They will assume you’re a whore, no better than a dirty street girl.” 



Javert closed his eyes, tears slipping down his cheeks. He knew the man was right. There was no way out of this other than to cooperate. He held back a sob as the man pressed his length inside his body. 



“He’s so tight,” the man growled out, ramming himself up to the hilt. “Better than any whore I’ve ever bought.” Javert could feel nothing but searing pain, and a wetness around his hole; he was bleeding. He began to outwardly weep, unable to hold himself back. 



The man used his free hand to wipe the tears off Javert’s cheeks, as if there were any intimacy in this violation. “What a pretty picture you make, Inspector. Cry harder for me.” Javert whimpered at a harsh thrust, which seemed to please the man. 



“Can I use his mouth?” Javert heard one of the other men ask. “Doesn’t seem right that there is another perfectly good hole not being used.” 



The man agreed, and before Javert could comprehend, another man was squatting over him. He grabbed Javert’s hair, forcing him to an uncomfortable half-sitting position. “If you bite me, I will kill you,” the man growled, forcing Javert’s head to his cock. Javert gagged at the intrusion into his mouth. He could not control the speed; the man was using his hair to fuck his mouth. Javert drooled and gagged, as the cock repeatedly hit the back of his throat. All the while, the other man was pounding into his ass. The man was hitting that spot again, that spot inside Javert that made him want to moan in pleasure. For some godforsaken reason, it was starting to feel good and his cock was hard again. The man fucking him finally ejaculated, giving Javert some sense of relief that he would have a reprieve. 



As he focused on trying to pleasure the cock in his mouth, he was disgusted to feel another cock pressing inside him. This man briefly rubbed Javert’s hard cock, which caused him to moan around the length in his mouth. This sent the man over the edge; he grabbed on to Javert’s hair, forcing him to swallow his spend. When he finally removed himself from Javert’s mouth, the inspector gagged and wretched, vomiting a mixture of his stomach contents and semen on the ground. His chin was a mess of drool, vomit, and semen and Javert so badly wanted to wipe his face, but he could not. 



As soon as he finished vomiting, another man came over to use his mouth. The man grabbed him by the chin, staring at his filthy face. “You’re disgusting,” the man growled. He shoved two fingers in his mouth, reaching the back of Javert’s throat, making him gag again. Tears flowed down his face as the man shoved his cock into his mouth. This man did not grab his hair like the other man, so Javert was forced to find a rhythm, bobbing his head in a way he hoped was pleasing. 



The man fucking his ass was becoming more erratic with his thrusts. He was not reaching Javert’s prostate, which was the only part of this ordeal that felt pleasurable to him. He pushed back, trying to force the man deeper inside. Finally, he felt the spot being hit. As the man bucked into him again and again, nailing his prostate repeatedly, Javert whimpered and ejaculated, causing him to pause from pleasuring the length in his mouth. He felt the other man spend inside him, remarking to his friends that Javert came without a hand on his cock. 



The man using his mouth grew impatient at Javert’s pause. He grabbed him by the throat, squeezing hard. Javert gasped, feeling lightheaded. 

This is it, this is how I die, with a cock in my mouth

, he thought helplessly. As the world began to fade to black, the man finally loosened his grip on his throat. Javert pulled off his cock, gasping and coughing. He could not speak, he could not beg for mercy, he could not plead for a moment to recover. The man grabbed his hair and forced his length back into Javert’s mouth, even as he continued to see stars. After a hard thrust that reached the back of his throat, the man finally ejaculated. When he pulled away, Javert once again vomited, but this time it was only semen and stomach bile. 



The two men who had yet to use him decided they wanted him in a different position. They flipped him to his stomach, a man penetrating him from each end. Javert just wanted this torture to be over. He could feel faintly that something was coming out of his hole, but he was unsure if it was blood or semen. He was still dizzy and lightheaded from being choked. He tried pushing back against the cock in his ass, attempting to tighten his loose hole around the man in hopes that he would finish quickly. He forced his mouth to produce more saliva, hoping his mouth felt wet and tight for the other man. The man in his mouth finished quicker than the others, and Javert was grateful for the reprieve. His body went slack as he let the other man use him as a cocksleeve. The man used his already sore hips as leverage, fucking in and out of Javert’s sloppy hole. After what seemed like ages, the man finally came, adding to the mess inside him. 



When he was done, Javert collapsed. He felt like an animal, unable to communicate, unable to think coherently. He tried to beg them to stop, but all that came out was an animalistic wail. In response, one of them used his cudgel to hit him over the head. Javert’s head slammed to the ground, the world turning black. He could only faintly hear the men talking; he was slipping in and out of consciousness. He was aware enough to realize that he was raped again, but how many times he was uncertain. He knew at some point during an assault he had somehow ejaculated again, and could hear the men laughing at him. He could hear the men comment on what a whore he was, how they had ruined his virgin hole, how they should keep him as their sex slave. He knew his mouth was used again, his jaw slack enough that the man could easily fuck his mouth.



 In his semi-conscious state, he heard the men trying to decide what to do with him. One seemed determined to “finish him off”, and either leave him in the park or try to bury him. However, the leader suggested an idea that greatly excited the men; they would leave his brutalized body on the front lawn of Monsieur le Maire, as a “gift.” The group cheered at this idea. As Javert continued slipping in and out of reality, he felt a man pick him up, carrying his limp body over his shoulder. He could hear the man complain that his disgusting body was getting his clothes dirty. 



Javert was unconscious all the way to Madeleine’s house, until he was dropped into the grass. After he heard the group run away, he forced his eyes open, looking up at the sky. He could tell, by the slightest bit of morning light, that dawn would break in nearly an hour. People would come out of their homes, and see his battered and dirty body. They would recognize him by his uniform jacket and hair. He needed to hide somewhere, but he was unable to even crawl. His only hope was that Madeleine would find him before anyone else did. Javert used his last bit of strength to cry out; he tried to form the word “help” but found himself unable, instead, a piteous wail coming out. As he continued to cry, he looked up at the sky, asking God to send Madeleine at once to save him. 



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Valjean awoke with a start, sitting straight up in his bed. He had been dreaming of Toulon again, one of his routine nightmares. But something had awoken him from his nightmare, some faint sound. He paused to listen for it again, but heard nothing. When he laid back down and closed his eyes, he heard it again. This time he could tell it was a cry of some sort, possibly a wounded animal. Valjean sighed and reached for his lantern. He couldn’t bear to hear a creature in pain like this. 



When he reached his front door, the sound became clearer. Valjean could not place what type of animal it could be, but it sounded dreadful. He opened the door, prepared to see a dog or cat laying on his lawn, mortally injured. Instead what he saw made him almost drop his lantern. This was no animal, it was a man. He could see the man had been severely beaten; his face was covered in blood. Naked from the waist down, the man’s thighs were covered in angry red and purple marks. His hands were handcuffed behind his back. As Valjean walked closer, he realized with horror that he recognized him. It was Javert. Even thinking the man’s name made Valjean’s pulse race; from the day Javert became the Inspector of Montreuil, Valjean was fearful that he had come to drag him back to Toulon. He had done his best to avoid him as much as he could. But seeing him like this made Valjean want to weep. 



“My Lord. Javert?,” said Valjean, squatting down next to him. 



Javert looked back, trembling. “Help me,” he whispered weakly. 



Valjean jumped into action, carefully picking up the man’s limp body, cradling him in his arms. He carried him into his home and took him straight to his bedroom, laying him carefully down on his side to avoid discomfort on his cuffed hands and wrists. 



“I will get your bed dirty,” Javert said hoarsely. 



It was only then that Valjean realized the extent of this assault. He noted blood and semen coating the man’s inner thighs, and dried semen on his jacket. His face and a bit of his hair also appeared to have semen stuck to it as well. Valjean’s heart sank and tears filled his eyes. 



“Do not worry yourself with that. The bed can be cleaned. Tell me Javert, who did this to you?” Valjean asked. He pulled up the blanket to cover Javert’s lower half. 



Javert trembled. “I do not know,” he whimpered. Unable to control himself, he began weeping. 



Valjean realized that the inspector was in no state to talk. Instead, what needed to take priority was removing his handcuffs and getting him medical attention. Valjean leaned down, gently placing his hand on the inspector’s shoulder. “Shh. Javert, listen to me. Are these your handcuffs? Do you have the key?” 



Javert sniffled, trying to compose himself. “Yes. It’s in the inner pocket of my jacket,” he said shakily. 



Valjean unbuttoned the man’s uniform jacket, praying that the key had not slipped out. Thankfully, he found what he was looking for. He leaned over Javert to unlock the cuffs. Even after they were removed, Javert did not move his hands from the position behind his back. Valjean noticed how bruised and raw his wrists were; Javert had clearly been cuffed for hours. Valjean gently guided Javert’s arms around to the front of his body, Javert delicately laying his wrists on top of the blanket. 



“We need to send for a doctor at once,” Valjean said softly, leaning down to be eye level with Javert. 



Javert’s eyes widened, looking panicked. “No!” he cried. “No, don’t send for a doctor. Nothing is broken. I am bruised, but I will recover.” 



Valjean bit his lip, contemplating how he should delicately tell the inspector his concerns about his assault. He cleared his throat. “I think it would be best for a doctor to examine you. He would be able to tell if there is any permanent damage, or need for stitches.” 



Javert became agitated, angrily sitting up. “I don’t want anyone else to see me like this!” he exclaimed. “It’s wretched enough that Monsieur le Maire has to see his Inspector like this. The town can’t find out about this. My officers can’t find out about this. Once a doctor sees me, he will send for the police and force me to make a report.” 



Valjean considered Javert’s point. Even from his Toulon days, he always knew Javert to be a proud and dignified man. He could not imagine the pain and humiliation he must be feeling now. Valjean also considered that the police could release him from his job if they found out about this incident; they may believe that Javert is unable to fulfill his duty. 



“I understand, Javert. I will let that be your choice. I will not call a doctor. Would you at least allow me to clean you and check your wounds?” Valjean asked hesitantly, prepared for Javert to lash out angrily. 



Instead, Javert surprisingly settled back down into the bed. “Yes,” he said quietly. 



Valjean prepared a bucket of soapy water and found supplies to dress any wounds. While gathering the items for Javert, he imagined what his past self, what Prisoner 24601, would think if he knew he was helping Javert. Prisoner 24601 would have left the man to suffer, would think that this was a fitting punishment for a man who doled out cruel punishments to the men in Toulon. Valjean cringed at the thought. No matter what Javert had done in the past, Valjean knew that any sin could be forgiven. By the grace of God, Valjean was a new man, a man who was unable to hold any hate in his heart. Even for Javert. He still feared the man, but he could not hate him. 



When he came back into the room, it appeared Javert had fallen asleep. He set down his supplies and went back to the kitchen to get a glass of water. “Javert,” he said quietly, coming back to the room. Valjean shook him gently, and Javert opened his eyes blearily. 



“Here, drink this.” Javert made no effort to sit up, still looking half asleep. Valjean gently guided him up, pressing his lips to the cup. “Drink,” he said. “I will get you cleaned up and then you can sleep.” Javert obeyed, allowing Valjean to guide the cup. 



After Javert finished the water, Valjean brought the soapy cloth to his face. He started first with the locks of hair that were sticky with semen. He moved on to the dried blood on his forehead and the side of his face. Valjean noted that most of the injuries to his face were bruises and small cuts that already stopped bleeding. However, one wound near his temple appeared to be open and oozing with blood. Valjean reached for the alcohol, pouring a bit on a clean cloth. “I am sorry, but this will sting,” he said, pressing the cloth to the wound. Javert hissed, but did not jump, allowing Valjean’s gentle hands to clean the wound. He carefully bandaged it when he thought it sufficiently clean. 



He moved to his chin, which appeared to be filthy with semen, dried drool, and vomit. Valjean used one hand to lift up his chin, while his other hand gently scrubbed it clean. Moving down to his neck, Valjean gasped, noticing bruises in the shape of a set of fingers that he hadn’t noticed before. Javert had been choked.



Valjean coughed, trying to distract himself from crying. “You can lay back down if you would like. May I move the blanket to clean your legs?” 



Javert gave a small nod, settling back down. 



Mentally preparing himself for seeing the battered lower half of the inspector again, Valjean took a breath and removed the blanket. Valjean had seen a variety of horrible injuries in Toulon. He tried to put himself in that mindset, telling himself it was just blood and body fluid, nothing he hadn’t seen before. Still, he couldn’t help the flutter in his heart seeing the bruises that seemed to cover Javert’s legs. It was clear Javert had been beaten with a blunt object, probably his own cudgel. Valjean again took a deep breath, and tried to focus solely on the mechanics of the task. As gently as he could, he scrubbed his legs. It was mostly Javert’s inner thighs that needed the most attention, they were filthy with dried blood and semen. 



The inspector jumped with surprise when Valjean began cleaning the delicate skin of his inner thigh. “I’m sorry,” said Valjean softly. “Should I keep going?” 



“Yes,” Javert replied stiffly. 



The cloth had to be dipped back in the soapy water several times before the first thigh was free of blood and semen. Moving to the other thigh, Valjean focused on the task at hand, trying not to dwell on the attack Javert suffered. After the other thigh was cleaned, Valjean cleared his throat, looking at the body part he had been avoiding. Javert’s penis laid delicately against his thigh. It looked red, as if it too had been hit. It appeared to be dirty with semen, as were Javert’s testicles and pubic hair. 



Valjean carefully inched his hand up, near Javert’s penis. Without looking him in the eye, Valjean asked, “May I clean you here?” 



“Yes,” Javert choked. 



Valjean paused, looking up at the inspector to ensure that he was alright. Javert was looking at the ceiling, blinking rapidly. 



“Would you rather clean yourself?” Valjean asked gently. 



Without replying, Javert took the cloth from Valjean’s hands. Valjean politely looked away as Javert sat up and quickly wiped the cloth down his penis and testicles, and up through his pubic hair. Valjean turned back to see that Javert was lying on his belly, prepared for Valjean to continue his cleaning. 



“I have wounds that need cleaned here,” Javert said stiffly, voice slightly muffled into the pillow. 



Valjean sighed quietly, seeing angry red gashes across the back of his thighs and up to the inspector’s buttocks. These were surely marks from being beaten with a belt. 

The poor man has suffered greatly, 

Valjean thought. Valjean picked up the clean cloth he used for alcohol, and set to work. Javert would occasionally hiss or groan as he was cleaned and bandaged, but did not complain. 



When Valjean finished with those, there was a very intimate spot left to clean and examine. He moved over to where Javert laid his head, leaning down. “I need to clean inside you, and inspect for injuries. Will you allow me to do so?” he asked. 



“You must,” Javert said quietly. He did not look up to meet Valjean’s eyes. 



Valjean reached for a fresh cloth. As he squeezed the excess water from it, he noticed that his hands were shaking. 

Compose yourself, 

he thought. 



He came back to the bed, and again, told himself to focus as if he were a doctor doing a physical examination. He gently parted Javert’s buttocks, trying not to gasp at the amount of semen inside him. Valjean cleaned as delicately as he could, wiping the man thoroughly. Javert was trembling, and Valjean was unsure if he was crying. The hole gaped obscenely as Valjean pushed a little further in, trying his best to clean as gently as possible. Finally, all traces of semen were gone. Valjean leaned forward, looking closely for any signs of tearing that would need stitches. The hole was puffy and irritated, but there did not seem to be any severe injuries. He let go of Javert’s buttocks, and turned away for a moment shakily drawing in a breath. 



“It does not look like there are any severe injuries,” Valjean stated. “But you will probably be in pain for a while. We should continue to monitor you.” 



“I told you that I didn’t need a doctor,” Javert rasped out. 



Valjean didn’t reply, but walked back over to Javert, guiding him to sit up. He noticed fresh tears running down his face. Valjean reached for a clean handkerchief from his nightstand, wiping the tears from the inspector’s face. He then helped him remove his jacket and shirt, after which he turned to his dresser, taking out his spare nightshirt. Javert nodded at Valjean gratefully, slipping the nightshirt over his head. Grabbing Javert around the waist, Valjean guided him to the chair in his room, noting how much the inspector struggled to walk. As Javert watched drowsily from the chair, Valjean set to work on stripping the bed of its sheets; they had become much too dirty for Javert to sleep on. Once the bed had clean sheets and blankets, Valjean helped Javert lay back down. 



“I will be sleeping in my spare room. I will come check on you in a few hours,” Valjean said, beginning to bend over to take the bucket and dirty cloths out of the room. 



“Don’t leave,” Javert said with a trembling voice. “Please, monsieur. The men may come back for me. Please don’t leave me.” Javert’s voice broke off as he began crying again. 



Valjean’s heart broke. 

The men that did this to him are truly monsters

, he thought. Valjean pulled his chair next to the bed, taking Javert’s hand in his. “I won’t leave. I’ll be right here. Sleep now. You are safe.” 



Javert’s hand trembled and more tears spilled from his eyes. Valjean’s thumb rubbed gentle circles into Javert’s hand, something he remembered his mother doing when he was a child to comfort him. “Shh. Go to sleep,” he whispered soothingly. 



Javert obeyed, and closed his eyes. Within minutes, his breathing had slowed and he finally looked at peace. Valjean leaned over, still holding Javert’s hand, and began praying silently, finally letting tears slip from his eyes. 



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Javert woke with a start to a knock on the door. Opening his eyes, he was momentarily confused; the bed was not his, the room was not his. Feeling a surge of pain, the nightmare of the previous night came flooding back. As if the attack was not bad enough, Madeleine had seen everything. He cleaned and examined Javert’s gaping hole. He saw Javert weep like a helpless child. Javert wondered if being shamed in death would have been better than living through the humiliation with Madeleine. He was broken out of his reverie by another knock to Madeleine’s bedroom door, a female voice calling, “Monsieur le Maire?” 



Javert glanced over, and saw Madeleine had been sleeping in his chair. He had not left Javert alone during the night, just as he promised. The last Javert remembered, the man was holding his hand, as if he were on his deathbed. Now, Madeleine lay back in his chair, arms crossed over his chest. He jumped awake at the sound of the voice. 



“I will be out momentarily. Thank you, Sister,” Madeleine said as he rose, stretching his arms over his head. 



Javert realized that this must be Madeleine’s housekeeper, the nun known for never telling a lie. Closing his eyes, Javert pretended that he had fallen back to sleep. He wasn’t ready to face Madeleine after last night’s events. He could hear him quietly moving around, getting clothes out of his dresser. Javert opened his eyes a tiny crack. He needed to see his back, see if those faded scars crisscrossed over the pale flesh. Looking through his eyelashes, Javert saw that Madeleine’s back was to the wall, obstructing Javert’s view. 

Of course, how smart of him

, thought Javert, scowling internally. 



Instead, he saw the mayor’s sturdy stomach, his strong arms, his large muscular breasts. Looking lower, Javert flushed, realizing Madeleine had been bare under his nightshirt. His cock bounced as he leaned over to pull on his drawers. It was large, just like the rest of the man. Javert quickly shut his eyes; it was not right for him to take advantage of Madeleine’s trust like this. Still, it nagged at Javert, the familiarity of that body. There were many strong men in Toulon, but only one stood out; he was as sturdy as an ox, just like the mayor was. Javert remembered how easily Madeleine picked him up, cradling him in his arms as if he weighed nothing. As suspicious as he was, Javert did not want to entertain those thoughts at the moment. He didn’t think he could live with himself knowing that he allowed that convict to see him and touch him so intimately. 



Javert cracked his eyes open slightly when he heard the mayor moving about again. He watched as the man approached his mirror, tying a cream colored cravat around his neck. He then picked up a comb, quickly running it through his graying hair. Despite himself, Javert couldn’t stop himself from imagining helping the mayor with his cravat, perhaps peppering his neck with kisses and bites before tying it tight around him. Javert would gently comb through his salt and pepper colored locks, taking his time, gently pulling out any knots. His hair looked so soft; Javert had the urge to leap out of bed and run his fingers through it.



 Javert could not stop these thoughts; before he had any suspicion that the mayor was less than honest about his true identity, he was struck by how incredibly handsome he was. Though he was older than Javert, he was dignified and showed his age well. Javert remembered the first time they met, seeing the mayor’s strong body, his plump lips, his piercing blue eyes. He remembered awkwardly bowing, saying breathlessly, “Inspector Javert, at your service.” And he truly meant it, he would give his service to the mayor in any way he wished. Javert had gone home that night after the first meeting and wildly rutted against his pillow like a mad man, imagining servicing Madeleine under his desk. He had heard from everyone that Madeleine was a kind and generous man; he imagined that the mayor would be a generous lover as well. He had cum so hard that he saw stars to the thought of the mayor pulling him up into his lap and stroking him to completion. It was foolish, this infatuation with this man, especially as Javert began noticing things about the mayor that troubled him. Some part of him though still wanted to please Madeleine, to make Madeleine proud. Javert had been so immensely troubled by his thoughts that he had recently taken up smoking. 



Javert was broken from his rumination when Madeleine opened the door and exited the room. He could hear quiet bits of conversation between him and the nun, though he couldn’t quite hear what was being said. But he couldn’t imagine that Madeleine would share the events of the previous evening with the woman. A few minutes later, he heard the front door closing as Madeleine bid the Sister farewell. Javert tensed and closed his eyes again as he heard footsteps approaching the room. 



He heard Madeleine sit in his chair, before feeling a gentle touch to his arm. “Javert,” said Madeleine softly. “I brought you some breakfast.” 



Javert opened his eyes, blinking as if he truly had just woken up. In Madeleine’s lap was a tray, containing a plate of fruit and some tea. Sitting up, Javert couldn’t help but hiss at the pain he felt in his ass, a pain he knew he would be feeling for a while. The rest of his body thrummed with a dull ache from the beating, and even his head felt like it was pounding. 



Madeleine looked at him with sympathy which made Javert want to scowl and look away in anger. He didn’t want to be pitied or babied like this. It was utterly degrading and humiliating. He of course was grateful that Madeleine took him in, dressed his wounds, let him sleep in his own bed, but Javert couldn’t let this go on much longer. 



“Thank you,” said Javert, his voice coming out hoarse. His throat was sore, both from the battering it had taken and from being choked. 



“I’m sorry that it isn’t a more substantial breakfast. My housekeeper, Sister Simplice, of course does not work for me on Sundays,” said Madeleine apologetically. “But, she did just stop by, as she was concerned that I wasn’t at mass. I explained that I have taken in an injured friend and would need her to prepare meals for two this week. I think you will enjoy her meals, she is a talented cook.” 



 Between bites of fruit, Javert paused. He stuttered for a moment, trying to comprehend what the mayor just said. “Ah, Monsieur. You could have gone to church, you did not have to wait here with me,” he sputtered, mind reeling in shame as he remembered how he cried for Madeleine not to leave him. “I apologize for my outburst last night. I…” He paused. “I was not in my right mind. There is no need for me to stay with you. I shall be going home after I finish eating. I have to report to the station tomorrow morning.” 



Madeleine stared at him incredulously. “You don’t need to apologize for anything.” He reached to touch Javert’s hand, but Javert moved it away, not looking up to meet Madeleine’s eyes. “Pardon me for saying this, Inspector. Please take no offense. You can hardly walk. You should not return to your home, and you are in no shape to report to work. I want you to stay with me, I have let others stay in my home before-”



Javert snarled. “Beggars? Peasants? You think of me as those scroungers that you pity? I don’t want your pity.” He looked down at the tray. He knew he shouldn’t be speaking to the mayor like this, but he couldn’t stop his anger from boiling over. 



“No, Javert. I think of you as a friend in need,” replied Madeleine softly. “You don’t need to accept my pity, but I beg that you accept my offer.”



“No!” Javert exclaimed, moving the tray from his lap. Using the headboard for support, Javert stood to his feet. “I can walk. You’re acting as if I have broken every bone in my body. I cannot abandon my post for a few bruises.” To prove his point, Javert winced through the pain, taking a few steps across the room. He was limping quite noticeably, he realized. The pain inside him was so severe that it felt as if there was still a cock fucking him. At Toulon, the prisoners would know when someone had been sodomized just by the way they walked. 



Madeleine rose, grabbing Javert’s arm. “Stop this. Sit down,” he said, his tone a little severe. Javert stared at him with wide eyes, but obeyed, wincing as he sat on the bed. Madeleine sat next to him, and Javert heard him release a quiet breath. “I did not ask you to abandon your post. You are hurt, that is a valid reason to take a leave of absence.” 



Javert chewed his lip. He considered himself a strong person, but the thought of all the walking he would have to do, or even the simple act of sitting at his desk doing paperwork, sounded like torture. He was also missing his uniform trousers, his gloves, his hat, and his weapons. How would he explain that? He could say that the gang robbed him of these things, which was not a lie, but they would see Javert’s wound on his head, they would see the way he limped. They would know what happened. The officers would probably whisper to each other crassly, wondering how many cocks he had taken. 



After a long pause, Javert finally spoke. “I will take a leave of absence,” he said shakily. “But there is no need for me to impose on you.” 



Madeleine stared at him for a moment, before taking Javert’s chin in his hand. He forced Javert to look directly at him, his big blue eyes shining with some sort of emotion. Sadness, determination, anger? Javert couldn't tell. 



“As your mayor, Inspector, I am ordering you to stay with me,” Madeleine said in a low tone, his hand still gripping Javert’s chin gently. 



Javert gasped, feeling a shiver run down his spine. He remembered his own words, when he first met the mayor, 

Inspector Javert, at your service.

 If this was what Madeleine was asking of him, then it was his duty to obey. 



“Yes, Monsieur,” Javert said. It had come out much breathier than what he would have liked. He could blame that on his injuries. 



Madeleine did not release his chin. Eyes fluttering, Javert stared at the older man’s lips, resisting the urge to lean forward and kiss them. After a few moments, Madeleine finally let go, clearing his throat. Javert took in a shuddering breath and closed his eyes. Rising from the bed, Madeleine busied himself with picking up the tray from where Javert had left it moments ago. Eyes still closed, Javert heard the clattering of the dishware as Madeleine took it back to the kitchen. Though it had only been minutes, it was starting to hurt to sit up in this manner. He scooted back over to the head of the bed and laid back down. 



Madeleine came back moments later, leaning against the doorframe. Javert looked away, embarrassed from their interaction. “Javert,” the mayor said, the soft tone returning to his voice. “I’m sorry that I was severe with you. I’m concerned for you. You looked half dead last night, I…” the mayor trailed off, looking down at his folded hands. 



Javert did not respond, still unable to meet Madeleine’s gaze. He heard the man walk back over, sitting in his chair by the head of the bed. A long silence commenced, the only sound audible was Javert’s slightly wheezing breaths. Finally, after several minutes, Madeleine asked, “Are you ready to tell me what happened to you?” 



Javert stared out the window, watching a bird fly from tree limb to tree limb. He let the silence linger for a moment before he asked angrily, “Will you cry? Will you pity me?”



Javert heard Madeleine draw a breath in. “You don’t wish me to, so I will try not to.” 



Finally turning back to look at the mayor, Javert said, “It was the gang.” 



Madeleine blinked in surprise. “The gang? The thieves that have been roaming around?” 



“Yes,” Javert replied. “I wanted so badly to catch them. My men and I have been out late patrolling every night, but we had never seen them. We were walking around for hours fruitlessly. Last night, as my men were starting to drag their feet, I determined it was time to send everyone home.” Javert paused, folding his hands together tightly. “I was on my way home when I saw them down an alley. It was my opportunity to catch them, I did not have time to think. I engaged with them, I had drawn my gun out. You will think me a fool for chasing them on my own.”  



“You are not a fool,” Madeleine said softly. 



Javert did not respond. He licked his lips and continued, “There were six of them. They all came toward me at once. I fired my gun but did not hit any of them. One of them grabbed me by my hair and slammed my head against the wall. I became disoriented, and I dropped my gun. Before I could even think, they were surrounding me. Someone else grabbed my cudgel and another handcuffed me.” Javert drew in a shaky breath, his folded hands coming up to his mouth. He nibbled on a fingernail anxiously before he continued. “They took me to the park. I didn’t try to fight, I was completely defenseless and outnumbered. They threatened to kill me if I didn’t do what they wanted. They threw me on the ground and took my trousers off. They beat me with my belt and cudgel. I was surprised that the belt hurt much more than the cudgel did. I imagine it’s similar to what a lash feels like,” he glanced away from Madeleine as he said this. He could see from the corner of his eye that the mayor became very still. “They kicked me in the ribs, and slapped my face and below the belt too.” Javert looked at his hands before he began telling the next part. He was an officer of the law, he had heard of many awful things like this before. He tried to separate himself from this situation, and tell it as if it was a routine report. 



“Anyway, it was after this that they began raping me. They took turns sodomizing me and using my mouth. One man choked me with his hands so hard that I became dizzy and nearly passed out. Once I thought they were done, one of them hit me over the head with my cudgel. I became semi-unconscious, and I know I was sodomized again, I am unsure how many times. Someone else used my mouth again,” Javert said quickly. “And then, as I was still partially unconscious, they brought me here. I only started to gain back my senses once they dropped me on your lawn.” 



Madeleine seemed at a loss for words, stuttering for a moment. “Why…why did they bring you to me? Did they know this is the mayor’s house?” 



“Yes, they knew this is where you live. When I was trying to arrest them, I mentioned I was brought there by your orders. They took me to you as some sort of means of revenge,” Javert said. 



When he looked over at Madeleine, the man’s head was in his hands. He was shaking, and Javert realized he was weeping. “I thought you would not cry,” Javert said shakily. He thought he would be angry with the mayor for this act of pity, but instead he felt guilty, as if his words had personally attacked Madeleine. 



“Forgive me,” Madeleine sniffled, reaching into his pocket for a handkerchief. “From the moment I found you last night, I wondered if this was done to send me a message. I should have never asked you to promise that you would find them. I didn’t realize the danger I would put you in. This is my fault, Javert. I’m so sorry.” Madeleine’s voice broke off as he wept into his handkerchief. 



Javert’s eyes welled with tears. “Monsieur le Maire, don’t say that,” he hissed. “How could this possibly be your fault? You only wanted to protect your townspeople. I would have wanted to find them regardless if you personally asked me to or not. It was my own folly that caused this. I should not have tried to take them on my own.” 



Madeleine sniffled, trying to compose himself. “Please don’t blame yourself. This was an act of the devil. These evil men must be caught and pay for what they did to you.” 



Javert sat with those words for a moment, thinking. He remembered his reaction last night, how he cried for Madeleine not to call a doctor so that the police would not find out. If this happened to someone else, the solution would be so easy. The person should make a report, the police would find the gang, and they would be sent off to prison for a long time. The guards would take special notice of them, as they would not take kindly to men who attacked an officer of the law. Revenge would be dealt swiftly. However, Javert was bothered. He was ashamed. He could not face the prospect of reporting to his officers that this happened to him. He was supposed to be their leader. They would think him weak; they would never look at him the same again. Those higher up would eventually find out; they would transfer Javert somewhere else, probably to some even smaller town, maybe only assigning him to write reports as they would think him unfit to be an inspector. 



“I don’t want to tell them,” Javert whispered. “I would be ruined. They would never respect me again. They would treat me as if I’m dirty. And I am dirty now. But I don’t want anyone to know. My officers ought to find them eventually, I’ll send them out in squads later into the night. This gang will be in prison for their other crimes. It will still be just.” 



Madeleine reached out, grasping his hands over Javert’s still folded hands. Javert turned to look at him; the mayor’s eyes were bloodshot and watery, making the blue irises stand out more than usual. He had a look of understanding across his face; Javert was not sure why the expression made him feel comforted. 



“I will go to headquarters this afternoon, and tell them you are very ill and will need a leave of absence for a week,” Madeleine said, patting the folded hands reassuringly. 



Javert looked scandalized. “Monsieur, you can’t lie to the police.” 



Madeleine once again patted Javert’s hands. “Inspector, you are injured. Both an injury and an illness are physical ailments that render one unable to work. And, if injuries are not looked after properly, they can easily turn to illness. Nothing I would tell them is a lie.” 



Everything the mayor said was true. He supposed that saying he was ill was not technically lying, it may have just been slightly omitting the truth. Guilt lifted from Javert’s shoulders, and he visibly relaxed, loosening his tense hands in Madeleine’s grasp. “Fine. You may tell them I will be gone for a week due to illness.” 



Though it had not been long since Javert had woken up, he began feeling drowsy, especially as Madeleine once again soothingly rubbed his hands. In a state between being awake and asleep, he thought he felt the mayor press a kiss to his forehead, but perhaps Javert was just dreaming. 



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Valjean had been trying to read his Bible as Javert napped, but found himself unable to focus, reading the same verse over and over again. He sighed, closing it and setting it on his nightstand. His eyes turned to Javert, who was lightly snoring. Javert looked so much younger when he slept. While awake, Javert’s brow usually was furrowed, lips drawn into either a thin line or grimace. However while he slept, his face was free of tension and lines, mouth relaxed and hanging slightly open. It brought Valjean back to many years ago, when he first arrived in Toulon. Javert was a very young man then, a fresh-faced and keen low-level guard. If Valjean hadn’t been the victim of his punishments, he would have been impressed by how quickly the young man rose through the ranks to be the head of the guards. 



It was that same drive, that same eagerness to please that Valjean (or Madeleine as Javert knew him) found so easy to use to his advantage.

 Well, it wasn’t for selfish reasons

, Valjean reasoned with himself. He recalled how he grabbed the younger man’s chin, ordering him to stay at his home. And how easily Javert obeyed, as if he were a well-trained dog, looking up at him through his eyelashes, his gaze lingering on Valjean’s lips for a moment too long.



Valjean was not sure what overtook him in that moment. He blamed desperation, for he could not think of any other way to convince Javert to stay with him. Valjean did not want to imagine the man suffering alone in his home, or limping around the city. He could imagine Javert becoming so caught up in his duty as inspector that he would neglect to care for his wounds; they would become infected which could make him very sick. More than the physical toll though, Valjean worried what would happen to Javert if he was left alone with his own emotional turmoil. It was clear that Javert was struggling with many feelings: anger, guilt, shame, sorrow. Javert had no one else to confide in, no one else that could attempt to help him or soothe him. 



And now, Valjean was struck with new feelings of guilt and responsibility. Part of him knew Javert was right though, he would have pursued the gang regardless if Valjean had asked him to or not. The man lived and breathed justice. Even if Valjean could move past the feeling of guilt, it was still his duty to help the inspector. Just as Javert followed the letter of the law, Valjean followed God’s Word, which told him he was to help those in need. This included a man who would occasionally show up in his nightmares, whip in hand. But, if there was anything Valjean had learned since his release from Toulon, it was the power of forgiveness. For some reason too, Valjean was starting to feel some affection for the inspector. He felt the urge to hold his hand, stroke his back, kiss his forehead and cheeks. He had indulged himself with a forehead kiss as Javert fell asleep earlier; Valjean could not explain why, perhaps it was because he sensed that Javert had experienced very little love and affection in life. 



As if sensing Valjean’s affectionate thoughts, Javert shifted, eyes fluttering open. His face was peaceful for only a moment, before his brow furrowed in confusion. “How long was I asleep?” he asked, his voice still hoarse. 



Valjean checked his pocket watch. “Only an hour,” he replied. 



Javert blinked, sitting up carefully, a slight wince on his face. “I don’t know why I’m so tired,” he murmured. 



“Your body is trying to heal,” said Valjean. “It’s good, you need to rest.” 



Javert scowled. “You don’t need to watch me like a guard dog. If you have other things you need to be doing, then you should do them.” 



Valjean sighed. The inspector was stubborn as always. “My usual Sunday activity is reading in the sitting room. Reading in my bedroom does not deviate from my usual routine.” 



“Fine, suit yourself,” Javert snarled. He slowly shifted his legs to the side of the bed, using the headboard for support as he did earlier to stand on his feet. 



Valjean quickly stood up, grabbing his arm. “What are you doing?” 



Javert blinked, a flush rising to his cheeks. “I need to,” he paused, looking away from Valjean’s gaze. “Relieve myself.” 



Valjean blushed. “Of course. I’m sorry, I should have asked you earlier. Let me help you.” 



“Pardon me, Monsieur, but I don’t think I need assistance with that,” Javert said, a hint of amusement in his voice. 



Valjean allowed himself to smile. “I will help you to the latrine.” 



With his arm gently around his waist, Valjean helped Javert limp to the latrine. Javert allowed himself to lean into Valjean slightly, and Valjean was happy to support his weight. As Javert relieved himself, Valjean gathered some newspapers and books he thought the inspector may like to read. 



Once he got Javert settled back into bed with the reading materials and a glass of water, Valjean stood before him, clasping his hands. “Shall I go to the headquarters now?” He really wanted to ask if Javert would feel safe being left alone, but the inspector may have lashed out if asked that question directly. 



Javert looked up from the newspaper he had opened. “It would probably be best to go sooner rather than later. Excuse me for reminding you, Monsieur le Maire, but do not lie to them.” An anxious look passed over his face. 



“Of course not, Inspector. I promise that I will not say anything untrue,” Valjean said sincerely. 



Javert nodded. “Good.” 



As Valjean made his way from the bedroom, he stopped at the mirror to tighten his cravat and smooth his hair down. Continuing, he stopped in the doorframe, turning back to look at Javert. “I will be back shortly. I will lock the door behind me,” he said gently. 



Javert nodded sharply, looking back down to the newspaper. 



As Valjean started his brisk walk down the street, he felt guilty for leaving Javert alone. However, he knew it would be much easier to assert his authority as mayor in person, rather than through a delivered message. He did not make it very far down the street before someone stopped him to say hello. Valjean tried to keep the conversation brief, but as soon as he started his walk again, someone else stopped him. On any other day, Valjean would have been happy to talk to the townsfolk, but he did not want to leave the inspector waiting too long. He apologized profusely, saying that he had somewhere he needed to be, but he would be happy to speak to them another time. Valjean only made it one more block before he was engaged in conversation again. He blurted out the same apology, and decided to change strategies. He started lightly jogging, a determined look on his face. This seemed to work, as people simply shouted hello to him instead of trying to engage in a full conversation. 



Finally, Valjean reached the police headquarters. He stopped a moment to catch his breath, leaning over and panting profusely, before opening the door. There was one officer sitting at his desk, bent over his paperwork. When he looked over and saw Valjean, he quickly stood up. “Hello, Monsieur le Maire. How may I be of service to you?” The young man looked nervous, smoothing down the front of his uniform. 



Valjean gave him a reassuring smile. “Hello, Officer. I am here on behalf of Inspector Javert. I wanted to let all the officers know that he needs a leave of absence for a week.” 



The young man looked surprised. “Oh? May I ask why, Monsieur?” 



“Of course. You see, he’s fallen ill. So ill, in fact, that he is unable to leave bed. He is in my care; my housekeeper is a nun who has worked with the sick extensively,” Valjean replied. 



“Oh,” the officer said. “I am sorry to hear that. He did not seem ill when we were out on patrol last night.” 



“He fell ill late last night,” Valjean said smoothly. He cleared his throat. “So, do I need to speak to any supervisors about this matter, or…?”



“Oh no, Monsieur le Maire. I know how precious your time is. I will notify the others. I suppose if anyone will need the inspector for any matter during his absence, they will know where to find him,” the officer smiled nervously. 



Valjean returned his smile. “Great. Thank you, young man.” 



“Of course, Monsieur. I’m happy to be of assistance.” The officer bowed respectfully. “Please send Inspector Javert my regards. I hope he’s well soon.” 



“I will. Thank you,” Valjean said, quickly walking to the door before any other officer showed up. However, he paused for a moment, hand on the doorknob, feeling something nagging at him. This officer was so young and fresh-faced, just as he remembered Javert all those years ago. Images flashed in his mind of the young man walking home alone late at night, encountering the men just as Javert had. Clearing his throat, he looked back at the officer. “I asked the Inspector to catch that gang of petty thieves. With his absence, it is probably best that you cease your late night patrols until he’s back. Tell your supervisors that I asked you to stop for the time being.” 



The officer looked back with wide eyes. “Yes, Monsieur.” 



Valjean smiled. “Thank you, Officer. If anyone has any concerns, please direct them to me. Farewell.” 



Once he rounded the corner from the station, he leaned against the wall, sighing in relief. That was much easier than he expected. He had expected that he would be required to give a detailed report of Javert’s condition to a constable; now at least he had some time to think about what he could say if the officers were to show up to his home, asking for an update on Javert’s health. 



Valjean straightened himself, looking around for a moment. The area around the station was quiet. Knowing his town well, Valjean devised a way he could roam the streets while avoiding townsfolk. Valjean started his brisk walk, darting through side streets and alleyways. In the back of his mind, he could not help but wonder in which alleyway those men had attacked Javert. He found himself looking at the ground, looking for any signs; perhaps any part of his uniform, or a spot of blood. Seeing no clues, however, Valjean jogged up to his destination; not his home, but an inn. About a year ago, Valjean had given the widowed innkeeper money to help keep her inn in operation after her husband’s death. He had refused to accept any repayment from the woman. However, she insisted that she at least serve him a meal each Sunday evening to show her gratitude, which Valjean had accepted. After entering the inn, Valjean politely talked with the woman for a few minutes, before he tactfully told her that he had a sick friend at home. She gladly gave him two heaping bowls of stew and some bread. Valjean offered to pay her since this was much more than his usual portion, but she refused, sending him on his way. 



When he reached his front door, Valjean carefully set the bowls down on the front step as he unlocked the door. Picking them back up, he entered his home. “It’s me, Javert,” he called out, so as not to startle the man. Setting the bowls on the table, he swiftly walked to his bedroom, peering inside, expecting to see Javert either asleep or reading. 



Instead, Javert was curled up on his side, the reading materials discarded around him. He stared into the distance with wide eyes, looking frightened and tense. He blinked up at Valjean, drawing in a shaky breath. 



Valjean felt an immense sadness seeing the man like this. He approached the bed, sitting in his chair. “Is something wrong?” 



Javert huffed quietly, as if to say 

what a ridiculous question.

 “I could hear voices outside. I thought I heard them coming closer. I know it’s foolish, Monsieur, to think they would come back to the mayor’s house during the daytime.” 




This poor man

, Valjean thought. “You aren’t foolish, Javert. I, however, was foolish in thinking that I could walk about the streets without being stopped every block. I apologize for being gone so long.” 



Javert nodded, focusing his eyes past Valjean. “What was discussed at police headquarters?” 



“I only spoke to a young officer. I told him you had fallen ill late last night and you would be absent for a week. I asked if I needed to speak to anyone else, and he said he did not want to waste my time with that. He sends his well wishes,” Valjean replied. 



A nervous look crossed Javert’s face. “Hmm. And you did not lie?”



“No,” Valjean replied. “I did not offer up very much information, and the man did not ask for it.” 



Javert seemed somewhat satisfied with this answer, releasing a breath. “Thank you, Monsieur.” 



Valjean smiled. “I will bring some supper to you now. There’s a woman, an innkeeper, who makes a meal for me every Sunday. She was kind enough to send an extra bowl.” 



Valjean was happy to see that Javert had an appetite; he ate every bite of his stew and bread. When Javert brought the bowl to his lips to lick at the remaining drops in the inside of the bowl, Valjean bit back a laugh. 



“Here, have the rest of mine,” Valjean said, placing his bowl on the tray. When Javert hesitated, Valjean looked at him firmly. “I insist.” 



“Thank you, Monsieur. It’s quite good,” Javert said, a blush spreading from his cheeks to his neck. The color to his face suited him, making his features look even more striking against his dark hair. Valjean couldn’t help himself from staring at the man, who was too preoccupied with consuming the food to notice. 



After supper, the two men read in comfortable silence, until the last bit of sunshine streamed in from the window. As the sun set, Valjean suggested re-dressing Javert’s wounds, which he agreed to. The wound on his head did not look much better than it did the previous evening. The wounds from the belt on his buttocks and thighs were also still angry and red. Javert hissed and groaned at the sting of the alcohol again, but never uttered a complaint. Valjean was embarrassed when he asked to check inside him again, but Javert allowed it, closing his eyes as Valjean carefully spread him. The swelling had gone down some, but it still looked red and painful. Valjean resisted the urge to plant a kiss to the inspector’s thigh as he pulled the nightshirt back down. 



Valjean retrieved his own nightshirt, using the excuse that he needed to relieve himself so that he could undress outside the room. He did not want to allow the inspector the opportunity to catch a glimpse of the scars on his back. Just because Monsieur Madeleine had helped Javert did not mean that Jean Valjean would be left off easy if he were caught. It was as if Valjean was walking very carefully on a tightrope, one wrong move could mean the end of his freedom. Thinking about it too much wanted to make him hide from Javert, but the blooming affection and protectiveness he felt for the man were quickly overriding those feelings of fear. 



When he returned to his room and went to sit in his chair, Javert stopped him, reaching a hand out to him. “Monsieur, you ought to sleep in a bed tonight.” 



“I’m staying here. Don’t argue with me,” said Valjean firmly. 



Javert blinked, glancing over to the unoccupied side of the bed. “There’s room. You ought to be comfortable in your own bed.” He flushed slightly, fidgeting his hands. 



“Oh,” Valjean replied, surprised. “Well, if you are comfortable with this…”



Javert simply pulled back the blanket from the other side of the bed, motioning for him to get in. 



Valjean settled into his bed, respectfully facing away from Javert. He was starting to drift to sleep when he heard little whimpering sounds next to him. “Javert?” he said drowsily, turning toward him. In the moonlight he could see that Javert was curled on his side, facing him. Tears were running down his face as he shook and whimpered. Valjean leaned into him, cupping his face. “What’s wrong?”



“I…”Javert cut off hiccupping. “I’m sorry. I’m just so…” His sentence was cut off with a sob. He buried his face into Valjean’s chest, weeping brokenly. 



Valjean chewed his lip, forcing himself to not cry. He held Javert, rubbing his back and hair soothingly. When Javert calmed down some, he whispered, so quietly that Valjean barely heard, “I’m so fearful of them.” 



Hearing him say this made Valjean want to run down the streets until he found these men and beat them senseless. Instead he held the man closer to him. “I promise you, Javert. I will not let them hurt you. They would have to kill me. I swear.” 



Javert looked up at him with wide eyes. They stared at each other for a moment, before Javert grabbed Valjean’s neck, pulling him into a rough kiss. Valjean gasped into it, taken completely by surprise. When Javert released him, he laid his head against Valjean’s chest. “Thank you,” he murmured quietly into his skin. 



Valjean panted quietly. It was too late in the night for him to wrap his mind about what just happened. Instead, he resumed rubbing Javert’s back, the inspector sighing sweetly into his neck until he fell asleep. 


Things will start to get spicy between these old men in the next chapter. Stay tuned. ;)

In which Valjean and Javert both struggle with conflicting feelings about each other.

This turned out a lot angstier than I originally intended, lol. Sorry, they're both just such angsty characters.

I want to give a warning for dub-con in this chapter. Valjean and Javert engage in a sexual act, but Valjean is still posing as Madeleine. (Though, I'd say Javert is already about 70% sure they're one and the same.)


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)




The big prisoner pressed against Javert, growling. “You will take me,” he said, cock hard against his back. 





“Ahh,” cried Javert, struggling against the prisoner’s hold. “Please.” He wasn’t sure for what he pleaded, either for the prisoner to release him or take him roughly. 





The prisoner rutted against him. “Whore. You dreamed of this. You begged for this.” 





When Javert turned to look up, he saw those familiar, hardened eyes of Prisoner 24601 staring at him back. 




Javert woke up gasping and panting. He felt his arousal hard between his thighs. He hadn’t had this dream in such a long time. It had always left him frustrated; he always woke before 24601 penetrated him. The frustration would lead him to grinding against his pillow, leaving a sticky mess on him, for which he was ashamed to clean up. 



However, this time he was not in his own bed, and instead in the arms of Monsieur Madeleine. The two had somehow shifted positions through the night; they had started off face to face but now Madeleine held him from behind. And mortified, Javert realized that while he dreamt he had been squirming around in his sleep, probably moaning like a whore. Javert gasped when he came to the realization that the hard cock pressed into his back was not just part of his dream; his squirming had probably aroused the man. He heard Madeleine breathing heavily, and he was unsure if he was still asleep. 



A boldness overtook Javert, that same boldness that had led him to kiss the mayor last night. He could not hide his attraction to the man any longer. He grinded back into Madeleine, allowing the large cock to slide from his lower back to the globes of his ass through the thin material of their nightshirts. He heard a faint gasp, the mayor was surely awake now. Javert squirmed against him, arching his back even while Madeleine still held him. He felt insane, like an animal in heat. He needed to feel Madeleine’s hot arousal against his skin. Javert pulled the back of his nightshirt up, exposing his ass. When he reached back to pull up Madeleine’s shirt, he felt the man shudder against him. “Javert, stop.” 



Javert obeyed, moving his hand to Madeleine’s covered cock. “Please,” Javert whimpered, just as he had in his dream. He heard Madeleine hiss.



“Javert, stop this at once,” Madeleine growled, grabbing him by the wrist, forcing his hand off him. 



Javert snatched his arm away as if the mayor had hurt him, and whined like a pup, knowing how pathetic he sounded.  He should have known, he was not good enough to touch the mayor like this. Madeleine knew how dirty he was now; he had been sullied by those six men. He was no better than a street whore.  



Yet, Madeleine still held him; he still felt the man brush through his hair with his fingers as Javert whimpered, a few tears escaping his eyes. 



Javert thought he imagined it when Madeleine whispered, “Do you want me to touch you?” 



“Monsieur?” Javert asked shakily. 



Madeleine leaned forward, murmuring again against his ear, “Do you want me to touch you?” 



“Yes, please, Monsieur,” Javert gasped. 



Madeleine snaked his hand around, lifting up the front of Javert’s nightshirt. He paused. “I haven’t…I’ve never…” 



Javert blinked, realizing what Madeleine had said. The mayor had never lain with another. Why would he choose to lose his purity to Javert? Javert had been a virgin as well, before the events of the other night. Racked with guilt, Javert turned to look at Madeleine. “You don’t have to,” he said softly. 



“I want to,” Madeleine said, brushing some hair from Javert’s face. “I want to touch you. I want to please you. Allow me to. Tell me what you need.” 



Javert moaned at the words; this was better than any fantasy he ever had about the mayor. “Please, put your hand on me, Monsieur.” He paused, flushing in embarrassment. “Grip me and stroke me.”



With a shaky hand, Madeleine gently laid his hand on Javert’s cock. Madeleine’s big hand covered the entire length. Already, Javert moaned, his eyelids fluttering. The older man took him in hand, experimentally giving him a couple gentle strokes. “Is this good? Does this please you?” 



“Ah, Monsieur. Just grip it a little harder,” Javert moaned, arching into the touch. 



“Like this?” asked Madeleine, touching Javert with a firmer grasp. 



Javert wailed, feeling pre-cum leaking from the slit. “Yes, yes,” he sighed. 



Wrapping one strong arm around his chest, Madeleine stroked him in earnest. He did not stop Javert from grinding his ass against his own covered cock. When Madeleine experimentally touched the slit of Javert’s cock, Javert practically shrieked, ejaculating all over the mayor’s hand. Javert gasped and panted, reaching behind him to grip the mayor’s shoulder and grinded against him as hard as he could. Madeleine buried his head into Javert’s shoulder, gasping his name as he spent. Javert could feel the wetness spreading on the front of Madeleine’s nightshirt. 



Turning over to face him, Javert grabbed Madeleine’s hand. It was dirty with Javert’s spend. Boldly, Javert brought the hand to his mouth, licking at the bitter fluid. Looking up at the man, he suckled on his finger. 



“Javert. Lord. You don’t have to do that,” Madeleine said, his voice strained with lust. 



Javert felt a flutter of pride at the effect he was having on Madeleine. He remembered that when he was first introduced to the mayor, he was told that he was a deeply religious man. To see this pious man giving into his own carnal desires filled Javert with an unquenchable lust he had never felt before. Moaning, he suckled on two of Madeleine’s digits for a moment, before licking down to his palm, lapping up the semen in earnest. 



When the hand was cleaned, Javert grasped it, kissing the knuckles. “Thank you, Monsieur le Maire,” he said breathily. 



Madeleine was covered with a lovely flush from his face down to his neck. He looked utterly debauched, his usually neatly combed hair a complete mess, and his eyes glazed over. He stammered for a moment, before composing himself and kissing Javert on the forehead. “I hope that I have pleased you. I ought to draw a bath before Sister Simplice arrives for the day,” he said smiling. 



A bath sounded lovely to Javert. Though Madeleine had cleaned him up the other night, it had been too long since Javert had properly bathed. His hair, still in its queue, was beginning to feel greasy and in desperate need of washing and combing. As Madeleine rose to prepare a bath, Javert untied the ribbon from his hair, allowing his hair to drop to his shoulders. He ran his hands through it, sighing as he gently massaged his scalp, still basking in post-orgasmic bliss. 



Madeleine came back into the bedroom to find Javert with his hands twirling through his long, dark hair, eyes shut. Javert was so relaxed that he felt he could fall back to sleep, but Madeleine helped him rise up and walk to the bath. Perhaps it was his imagination, but Javert felt as though the pain had begun to lessen. The pain seemed to be more of a dull ache now, though he still limped when he walked. Madeleine helped him slip the nightshirt off, and carefully removed his bandages, before grasping his hand to guide him into the water. 



Javert sighed as he sank down, the hot water instantly soothing his aches and pains. When he looked up to meet Madeleine’s eyes, he realized that the man had rid of his nightshirt and dressed for the day. Confused, he asked, “Did you already bathe, Monsieur?”



Madeleine crossed his arms self-consciously. “No, I didn’t bathe. I cleaned myself up,” he blushed at the words, stopping to fiddle with his cravat. “I want you to take all the time you need, without feeling as if you need to rush for me.” 



Javert paused, something nagging at him. “Forgive me, Monsieur, but it occurred to me you have seen my naked body more than once, and very intimately might I add, but you have yet to let me see or touch yours.” Javert realized as he said this that it was slightly untruthful, as he had watched Madeleine undress yesterday without his knowledge. Still, he wanted to prove a point to the mayor. 



Madeleine paled, looking as if he had seen a ghost. “Uh,” he stammered. “I am sorry. Having no experience in this regard, I have to admit that I am nervous. I’m nervous you won’t like what you see…” the man trailed off, not making eye contact. 



After many years of working with dishonest people, Javert thought he had a good sense of whether someone was lying or not. Something about the mayor’s tone and behavior seemed insincere, as if he had just said the first thing that came to mind. Thoughts began racing in Javert’s brain, things that he did not want to think. To the forefront of his mind was his dream of 24601 molesting him. He wanted to scream, he wanted to demand the mayor to remove his shirt, show him his back, show him his prison brand on his arm. 



Before Javert could think of what to say, he felt a hand in his hair, stroking gently through it. Javert froze, a pleasant tingling sensation running through his scalp. 



“May I wash your hair?” Madeleine asked, his lips pressed against Javert’s ear. 



Javert couldn’t stop himself from moaning, much to his chagrin.

 He’s deceiving you,

 he thought.

 It would be like Jean Valjean to distract you and catch you off-guard.

 



Still, the hand in his hair felt heavenly. He was already vulnerable, stripped bare before this man. He had nothing: no weapons, no handcuffs (Madeleine had put them away somewhere), not even his own clothes. Drawing his knees up to his chest to maintain some dignity, Javert simply nodded, burying his face into his knees. 



Hands lathered with soap, Madeleine massaged Javert’s scalp gently. Javert could not believe how nice this felt, fingertips scratching his head in a pleasurable way. After Madeleine thoroughly cleansed his scalp, he began running his fingers through the long locks, gently untangling the knots. When one of Madeleine’s fingers snagged on a knot, pulling roughly on Javert’s hair, his head snapped up as he gasped in shock.



“I’m sorry,” said Madeleine softly, as he carefully worked through the knot. 



Javert was grateful he still had his legs drawn up, as the pull on his hair had gone straight to his cock. He wasn’t sure why; the pain shouldn’t feel so good. He didn’t feel this way when the gang had pulled his hair. It was something about the way Madeleine gently handled his hair combined with the pain. An image passed in Javert’s mind, him on his knees under the mayor’s desk. He would lay his head on the mayor’s lap as Madeleine absentmindedly stroked his head. Perhaps if he became frustrated about something, he’d tug on Javert’s hair. Javert would be happy to allow the mayor to take his frustrations out on him. Eventually, he’d grasp on to his hair using it to guide him towards his cock-



Javert whined loudly when Madeleine snagged on another lock, surprising them both. 



“Oh, Javert, I’m sorry. Did I hurt you?” Madeleine asked, voice dripping with concern. 



“Ah, no,” gasped Javert. He looked down, noticing how flushed his chest was, his nipples erect. He closed his eyes and hunched over, willing himself not to make another noise as Madeleine untangled the rest of the knots. He couldn’t believe his own degeneracy, becoming aroused from a simple hair wash; he was almost in disbelief that he had become hard again so quickly. Finally, Madeleine finished detangling his hair, and Javert could hear himself breathing heavily, his cock pulsing with desire. 



Before Javert could stop him, Madeleine guided Javert to lie back so he could rinse his hair, exposing his erection. At first, Madeleine said nothing, simply rinsing the soap from Javert’s hair. When he was done, he paused, leaning into Javert. To Javert’s shock, the mayor boldly put his hand in the water, squeezing Javert’s cock. “We should wash you here next,” he said, his voice a low growl. 



Javert gasped at that, arching into the mayor’s touch. “Ah, please Monsieur,” he whined. 



Madeleine’s strokes were slower this time, allowing Javert to rut into his hand. His eyes closed, Javert sighed in pleasure. There was just something that was missing, something that would make this better. 



“Monsieur, pull my hair please,” he said in a small voice. 



“Pull your hair?” the mayor repeated in surprise. 



“Yes,” Javert hissed, grinding into Madeleine’s hand. “It felt so good.” 



“Oh,” breathed Madeleine. He gathered a section of Javert’s hair, giving it a light tug. 



“Harder,” whined Javert. “Pull hard.” 



Madeleine obliged, pulling hard enough to make Javert’s scalp hurt for a second. He moaned his approval, spurring the mayor to gather another section. This time he tugged hard from the ends. The pain caused Javert to wail and spend himself in the water. Javert, lay back panting, his scalp tingling pleasantly. 



“Did I hurt you?” asked Madeleine, concerned. 



Javert closed his eyes. “Yes. But I wanted you to.” He suddenly felt self-conscious, laid bare before the mayor, or whoever he was. Why had he begged like a bitch in heat to be touched? Javert felt that his common sense had been compromised, and his dignity stripped. A sick thought entered his head: if this man truly was Valjean, what if this was some part of an elaborate scheme? What if Valjean paid the petty thieves to initiate this vicious attack in order to get revenge? What if he wanted to “help” Javert to throw him off track? Perhaps his plan was to turn him into some mindless slut, train him into being Valjean’s bedwarmer so that he would completely forget about taking him back to Toulon. 



Javert opened his eyes. “I beg your pardon. Can I have some time alone? I’m capable of washing myself.” 



“Oh. Sure,” Madeleine said, clearing his throat. “I’ll just be in the bedroom. Call out if you need help.” 



Javert felt his pulse race, his temper flared. “You can stop with this,” he hissed. “Yes, I am injured, but I’m not an invalid. I don’t need you with me every second.” 



Madeleine paused, an indecipherable look crossing his face. “I’m sorry,” he murmured. He left the room swiftly, shutting the door behind him. 



Javert felt almost guilty for the way he had spoken to Madeleine, but he quickly shook off the feeling. He needed to be more vigilant. He needed an opportunity to be alone so he could piece together Madeleine’s true identity. This room would not give him the clues he needed; the answers probably lay in Madeleine’s office tucked into a desk drawer. Javert played through several scenarios in his mind, trying to decide what he would do if Madeleine was truly Valjean. Would he run out in his bare feet and nightshirt to the police station? Would Valjean try to violently subdue him? Would he need to lie in order to escape? 



Eventually, it became too much for Javert to sit on his bruised ass in the bathtub. He reluctantly got up, using the tub as support as he stood on his sore legs. Thankfully, Madeleine had left him a towel, which he quickly wrapped around himself. As he dried himself, he looked down at the awful state of his legs, the white flesh colored with red and purple hues. He noticed some bruising near his ribs as well, from where he had been kicked. Not wanting to look at himself anymore, Javert wrapped the towel tightly around him and grudgingly limped back to the bedroom. 



Of course, Madeleine was sitting in the chair by the bed, reading his Bible. Javert wasn't sure what to think anymore. Was this truly the pious Madeleine, or the deceiving Valjean putting on an act? Still, he allowed the man to rebandage his wounds. He didn’t want to arouse suspicion. However, neither of them exchanged words, the tension in the air thick as Javert kept the towel covering his penis. 



When Madeleine went to bring Javert a dressing gown, Javert sighed. He was tired of feeling naked and exposed in front of the man. “I’m sorry to impose, Monsieur. May I please just have proper clothing?”



Madeleine’s eyes widened momentarily. “Yes, of course.” He hurriedly retrieved a shirt and trousers from his dresser, bringing them to Javert, who was sitting on the bed with the towel fully wrapped around his torso. “I’ll just give you a moment of privacy,” Madeleine said, quickly leaving the bedroom. 



Though Madeleine’s clothes were slightly too large on Javert, it felt good to have his body covered. When Madeleine came back a few moments later, he had an anxious look on his face. Sitting down in the chair, he examined Javert for a moment before speaking. “Did I do something wrong? Should I have not touched you in the bath? Whatever it is, Javert, I am truly sorry.” 



Javert didn’t answer for a moment, thinking for a moment what he wanted to say. “I wanted you to touch me. I suppose I’m embarrassed about my behavior.” Javert sighed, looking away. In his mind he screamed, 

If you are Valjean, then you have done everything wrong.

 



“Why are you embarrassed?” Madeleine asked softly. He touched the blanket as if he wanted to grasp Javert’s hand, but Javert did not move. 



Javert scoffed. “How could I not be? I’ve been behaving like a deviant. Then I enter the bedroom and see you reading your Bible, after I had just been rutting against your hand like a wild animal.” 



“You aren’t a deviant. I wanted to please you. I..” Madeleine paused. “I think you are forgetting that I rutted against you too,” Madeleine finished softly, blushing. 



“Well, you haven’t been naked and exposed like I have. You haven’t had multiple men inside you,” Javert hissed. He wasn’t in the mood for Madeleine’s sympathy. 



Madeleine pulled his hand back as if Javert had hit him. He sat for a moment, speechless, before quietly murmuring, “I’m sorry, Javert. I should never have touched you. I’m sorry.” Madeleine quickly stood up, exiting the room. 



Javert watched, trembling with anger and shame as the mayor left the room. He picked up Madeleine’s Bible, quickly flipping it open, looking for anything of interest. There was no name written inside. Madeleine had a page marked; it appeared he had been reading the story of Christ’s crucifixion in Luke. As Javert skimmed the page, a portion caught his eye. 




 39 And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.





40 But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?





41 And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss.





42 And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.





43 And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise.




Javert slammed the Bible closed. 



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Valjean paced his office, unsure of what to do. Javert’s mood had seemed to sour swiftly. All had seemed fine until the second time Valjean touched him. Had the touching disturbed him, had it reminded him of his attack? Though, something had seemed off prior to that. Javert seemed perturbed that Valjean had not allowed him to see or touch his naked skin. Was he growing suspicious?  Nearly from the moment Valjean had met the inspector as Madeleine, he seemed distrustful and wary. The inspector had even vaguely recognized him, as he inquired if they had met before. When the inspector didn’t inquire further, Valjean had assumed he was safe, though he still regarded Javert dubiously. 



Valjean still wanted to help the man, but the situation was becoming precarious. Perhaps he should let Javert be alone for a while, perhaps his mood will improve as the day goes on. Still, Valjean couldn’t shake his anxiety and shame. He deeply regretted giving into his lustful desires. Giving Javert pleasure felt right in the moment, but Valjean felt guilty about having his own release against Javert’s back. Then, he touched the man again, and pulled his hair so hard that he cried out! Valjean felt sickened; the man had been through so much already. Sitting at his desk, Valjean buried his face in his hands, letting a few tears escape from his eyes. 



Valjean was broken from his rumination by a knock to his office door. Sister Simplice had arrived for the day. Valjean collected himself, wiping his face with his handkerchief before he rose to greet her. 



“Hello, Monsieur le Maire,” she said. She paused, examining his face. “Are you well, sir?” 



Valjean’s face was probably flushed, his eyes watery and red-rimmed. He forced himself to smile. “Oh, I’m fine, Sister. I just didn’t sleep well last night.” 



“How is your guest?” she asked. 



Valjean chewed his lip. “He’s improving. He’s still in my bedroom resting.” Valjean paused, realizing that Sister Simplice would surely recognize Javert if she were to enter the bedroom. “If you may, will you allow me to deliver the meals to him? He’s been…uh…feverish and has been in the habit of removing his clothing.” Valjean felt guilty for being untruthful, but he wanted Javert to maintain his dignity. 



The nun blushed slightly. “Of course.” She turned away, busying herself with preparing breakfast. 



Javert barely acknowledged Valjean when he entered the bedroom with his breakfast. He had a book in his lap, but didn’t appear to be reading it, staring blankly at the wall. Setting the tray gently in his lap, Valjean debated what to say. 



Surprisingly, Javert broke the silence. Without looking at Valjean he asked, “Have you always been a religious man, Monsieur?” 



Valjean blinked in surprise, before noticing that Javert had his Bible lying next to him. He cleared his throat, sitting down. “No, I haven’t. I was not raised in a religious home. My mother died when I was a young boy. My father worked a hard job; he was a woodcutter. When he was not working, he was resting. He didn’t take my sister and me to church. Then, he also died, when I was still a young man. I suppose I was probably angry at God…” He trailed off, studying his hands. 



Javert looked at him, his face unreadable. “When did you become so devout?” 



Valjean picked up his Bible, idly thumbing through the pages. “Well, many years ago now, I met a bishop who was very kind to me. He helped me in a time of need, though I was a stranger to him. He showed me the love of God that day. Since then, I’ve tried to be a better man than I was before.” 



Javert released a breath from his nose, almost sounding like a snort. 



Valjean ignored this, clearing his throat. “What about yourself? Were you raised in a religious home?” 



Valjean jumped when Javert laughed bitterly. “Quite the opposite,” he replied, his eyes boring a hole into what felt like Valjean’s soul. “My mother was a fortune-teller. She taught me no concept of God, but she did teach me the names of constellations. And my father was a hardened criminal. From the time I was born, he was in jail. Both of my parents were criminals,” Javert spat, shaking angrily. “I was born in jail. I suppose my mother managed to behave herself enough that she was released, or they pitied her since she had a child.” 



Valjean froze in shock. He had never expected this to be Javert’s origins. Javert carried himself with an almost bourgeois air. Though, Valjean reasoned, if one examined him closer they would notice subtle signs of roughness. Valjean recalled Friday afternoons at his office, as Javert droned on with his report, how his mind would wander. He had observed Javert, noticing that his clothing was thin and worn, and had subtle signs of repair. His boots were clean, but unshined. His voice trembled when he spoke to “Madeleine,” and though he stood straight, he would often look down, as if he felt unworthy to meet the mayor’s gaze. At the time, Valjean thought Javert was perhaps too absorbed in his job to concern himself with his clothing. But now, he realized that this was a man who had no family wealth, he had to support himself solely with his meager police salary.



It chilled Valjean to think how similar, but different they were. They both had difficult upbringings which forged them onto different paths: Valjean forced into crime while Javert clung to upholding the law. Yet somehow, Valjean had been able to build a good life for himself without having family wealth; he lived comfortably, he could purchase whatever he wanted or needed, and he could freely give to the poor without a second thought. Meanwhile, Javert could not purchase himself new clothing, or seemingly even feed himself properly; Valjean couldn’t help but notice how thin he was. But still, it was admirable how Javert managed to get himself this far. He presumably pulled himself up from being a little boy on the streets with his vagabond mother, to a feared and respected police inspector. 



Valjean realized he had let the silence linger too long. “I admire you, Inspector, for overcoming your difficult upbringing,” he said sincerely. Javert simply scoffed and looked away. Valjean continued, “I will not force my religion on you, but if you wish to ask me anything, I would happily answer.” 



“Don’t think I’m ignorant in such matters. I did have an education,” replied Javert, rolling his eyes. “I never said I don’t believe in God, but I hardly understand Christian practices. It was amazing in Toulon how many criminals would try to use the Bible to convince me of their innocence or repentance. They thought that just because their God forgave them for their actions means that the law should as well.” 



Valjean shifted uncomfortably, looking away from Javert’s intense gaze.


 Javert paused, before continuing. “On second thought, I do have a question for you, Monsieur. Do you truly believe that someone who has done wrong his entire life deserves salvation? Is it not fair or just that a man who has done wrong without repentance his whole life, but perhaps repents just moments before his death, deserves a place in the afterlife with people like your housekeeper, or the bishop who was kind to you?” 


Valjean sat back in surprise, stunned by the question. What was Javert implying? “Why do you ask this?” murmured Valjean. 



“I opened your Bible and saw that you had marked the story of Christ’s crucifixion. I read the part where he forgives the criminal being crucified with him, telling him that he will enter paradise with him, though presumably, this man had lived a life of crime,” Javert replied. 



Valjean paused, formulating his response. “God’s love and mercy is something that we can’t understand. Perhaps His sense of justice is different from ours. Though it may seem unfair, God knows what’s in a person’s heart, if they have truly repented and changed.” Valjean could feel Javert’s angry gaze upon him. “You don’t have to believe it, but this is what God’s Word tells those who believe.” 



“Pardon me for saying this, Monsieur,” Javert snarled. “It seems to be a convenient set of beliefs for criminals.” 



Valjean trembled, trying not to show his emotion. “Well, I’m terribly sorry you feel that way, Inspector. Perhaps we will continue this discussion at another time.” He glanced over, seeing Javert regarding him coldly. “I am going to visit the factory to speak to the supervisors. I will be back shortly. Sister Simplice is here, but I have told her not to disturb you.” 



Javert nodded. “Farewell, then,” he said indifferently. 



As soon as Valjean stepped outside the house, he doubled over, his heart racing. He prayed silently, asking God to guide him. Should he continue to help Javert, or was his freedom at risk? A feeling of panic was rising; he wanted to make Javert leave his home, pack his belongings, and flee. But Valjean knew he couldn’t just leave the man in his hour of need. His thoughts troubled him throughout his walk to the factory. At least focusing his mind on work would be a welcome distraction for a while. 



Valjean allowed himself to linger around the factory probably longer than necessary. It had become a well-oiled machine; the supervisors generally did not need his help to keep operations going. However, he was dreading returning home, unsure of what he should do with Javert. He tried to remember that Javert was a victim who had suffered greatly, though the image of him in Valjean’s mind seemed to linger on him as a prison guard with a whip in his hand. Why was he so fearful of the man that just hours before he had kissed and caressed? Valjean tried not to let his worry overtake his thoughts; he took a deep breath as he exited the factory, making his way back home. 



Valjean pulled open the door, calling out a greeting to Sister Simplice who was in the kitchen. He collected himself, fiddling nervously with his cravat before walking to his bedroom. His blood ran cold when he opened the door to find that the bed was empty. Panicked, Valjean called out Javert’s name, racing out of the room. Heart sinking, he noticed that his office door was open. 



When he entered the room, Valjean gasped when he saw Javert sitting at his desk. Hunched over, Javert’s loose hair shrouded his face. The desk drawers were pulled open, papers scattered everywhere. Somehow, Javert had managed to find the one document that had his true name on it; Valjean recognized that Javert was holding the wrinkled letter from his sister that he had kept with him all these years. 



Without looking up, Javert murmured, so quietly that Valjean could barely hear, “I knew it was you.” 



Before Valjean could even think, he cried out, “Please, Javert, I’m sorry! I promise I’ve changed, I’m no longer a criminal. Please, all these factory workers depend on me for their livelihood.” He continued babbling, unsure of what he was even saying, tears running down his face. 



Javert calmly rose, walking toward him. Valjean cowered away, half expecting the man to hit him as if he was already back in Toulon. Instead, Javert crossed his arms. “You’ve fled from the law for all these years. You’ve also deceived an officer of the law about your true identity. You continue to lie to every person you meet. You’re still very much a criminal,” he growled. 



Still weeping, Valjean resigned to his fate. He had been caught. There was no way for him to escape. The life he built was going to be ripped away. He would never see the outside world again. He stuck his wrists out. “Fine, take me!” he cried. “Cage me back up like an animal. It is your right.” 



Surprisingly, Javert paused. “I can’t return to the station yet, not in this state,” he said, motioning to the wound on his head. “I will return for you when I am healed.” 



“Why not send one of your men to come for me?” Valjean snarled. He had backed himself into the corner, curled in on himself, still holding his wrists out. 



Javert blinked. “They will need me to make the report,” he replied. He glanced down at the letter he was still holding, a strange look crossing his face.

 Is it hesitation? 

Valjean wondered. 



Javert took a step toward him. “I’m assuming this letter is precious to you. I will keep it in my possession so that I know you will not try to flee. I will return it to you when I come back, so that you may keep it in Toulon.” Javert paused, and Valjean noticed that he was trembling very slightly. “Though you are a criminal, I suppose you helped me. So, I give you my thanks. I can only assume you hold no association with the gang that attacked me.” 



Valjean gasped, horrified that Javert could think that. “No, Javert. Dear Lord! I stole a loaf of bread. I’m not a monster,” he said, voice breaking off into a sob. Sinking down to the floor in despair, Valjean came to a horrific realization. “But am I any better than them? I shouldn’t have touched you. I’m sorry. If you had known it was me, you would have never…”



Javert cleared his throat, looking down at Valjean with an almost pitying expression. “You must think me stupid. I’ve had my suspicions about you for a while now. When you refused to undress in front of me, it practically served as confirmation that it was you. Yet, I still allowed you to touch me,” Javert stopped, blushing. “I begged you to. Don’t compare those men sodomizing and using me to simple touches.” Wincing slightly at the pain, Javert crouched down to meet Valjean’s eyes. “I will be returning to my apartment to rest. I will be back by at least Friday. Do I have your sacred promise that you will not flee?” 



Trembling, Valjean stared into Javert’s dark eyes. Those words, sacred promise, the same words that Valjean had used in prison. Javert had remembered after all these years. “You have my promise,” croaked Valjean. “May God strike me down if I break my promise.” 



Javert simply nodded. He slowly rose, limping out of the room. When Valjean heard the door close, he began weeping again, curling into a ball on the floor. He cried for Javert, he cried for himself, he cried for the factory workers, he cried for his sister, and he cried for his nieces and nephews, those precious little ones that he would never see again. 


Post-nut clarity hit Javert HARD.

While Valjean awaits his arrest, an unexpected visitor comes to his door with terrible news. Javert experiences a roller coaster of emotions.

From here on out, this story will contain mentions of an underaged character being sexually assaulted. There is no graphic detail, but I still wanted to give fair warning.


Valjean dredged through the following couple days in pure misery. He sent Sister Simplice home; he was in such a state that he could not eat. He distracted himself by spending long hours in the mayor’s office. When he returned home, he read his Bible, though would often stop to wipe tears from his eyes. He chose passages of comfort, but still was unable to find peace. He slept very little; his worries kept him up at night. Of course he was worried for himself, but he also worried for the workers in his factory and for the people of Montreuil. As strange as it was, he worried for Javert too. He wondered what state he was in at his home all alone. Was he afraid? Did he cry in the night? Was he taking care of his wounds? When Valjean did sleep, he only had nightmares of Toulon. 



Of course, in the back of Valjean’s mind was the temptation to flee. But, he felt grounded in place. He had given Javert his word that he would not run, a sacred promise. Not only this, but Javert held the only physical memento of his sister and her children. Valjean thought of them often; he never knew what became of them. He had tried to locate them several years after he fled Toulon, but had no luck. The unfortunate truth was that they were probably all dead. It pained him to think this. But reading her letter brought Valjean comfort; though they all had suffered prior to his arrest, he had fond memories of all the children and could recall each child’s appearance, personality, and voice. They were sweet little children in his mind forever. If he lost the letter, he was worried that overtime his memory would fade and they would vanish from his mind. 



On Thursday evening, Valjean found himself slumped over in his chair at his desk. At this point, he felt numb. He was unable to cry. His thoughts were scattered and unfocused. He had considered gathering his possessions and giving them to the needy, but he was unmotivated to do so; all he could do was stare blankly at the wall. Perhaps he would leave everything to Sister Simplice and the church to do with as they wished. He had been sitting for hours with his rosary grasped in hand, but had long since given up on praying. 



A loud pounding on the door caused Valjean to jump. 

This is it, 

he thought.

 Javert’s come to take me away. 

Setting the rosary on the desk, he walked as calmly as he could to the door, his heart pounding loudly in his chest. He had accepted his fate; he was prepared to feel the heavy chains against his wrists and neck again. Opening the door, he expected to see Javert glaring down at him. Instead, to his surprise, was an officer who was very much not Javert; he was short and stocky in build. Valjean was so shocked that he forgot to greet the man, staring at him in surprise.



The man smiled nervously. “Good evening, Monsieur le Maire. I’m sorry to burden you at this late hour. May I speak to Inspector Javert? I was told he was staying with you, Monsieur.” 



Valjean let out a breath that he didn’t realize he had been holding. “The Inspector isn’t here. He retired to his home a few days ago.” 



“Oh. I presume his health has improved?” asked the officer. 



“Yes,” Valjean replied quickly. He paused; the officer seemed to be anxious about something. He had his hands grasped tightly in front of him and his eyes darted around nervously. 

Did someone send this officer to arrest him?

 “Why don’t you come in, officer. What’s troubling you?” 



The officer stepped over the threshold. He removed his hat, clenching it tightly in his hands. “I’m sorry to report that a terrible crime has occurred. I need to consult with the Inspector to see what our next course of action should be. The crime is so serious that I believe we will need to have patrols around the clock. We need Inspector Javert to return as soon as he is well enough.” 



Valjean’s heart fluttered nervously in his chest. He sat down, motioning for the officer to sit as well. “What’s your name, officer? I’m terribly sorry, I know we’ve met at some point.” 



The officer sat down, placing his hat gently in his lap. Valjean noted the light tremble to his hands. “Aurand. Constable Aurand,” he replied. “I’m still fairly new to this post, Monsieur.” 



“Thank you, Constable.” Valjean drew in a deep breath. “What crime has occurred?” 



Aurand looked down at his feet. “It’s a terrible crime, Monsieur. A gentleman like yourself shouldn’t have to hear such horrible things.” 



Valjean almost wanted to laugh, he was sure he had seen and heard worse at Toulon. No doubt, he would soon return to that place where he bore witness to how cruel men could be to one another. “You may say it. I’m the mayor of this town, I need to know the crimes that occur here.” 



Aurand nodded, and drew in a shaky breath. “A couple hours ago, a doctor came to the station, summoning us to the home of a widowed mother and her son, a boy of about 13 years old. When we got to the home, the mother told us she had sent the boy out to fetch some water. When he hadn’t returned after some time, she became worried, but couldn’t find him. He came back some time later; he somehow managed to walk home though he was severely beaten.” 



Valjean froze in terror; he had an idea how this story would end. 



Aurand continued, “He was so distressed that he could barely tell his mother anything, other than that some men had kidnapped him. She immediately fetched a doctor to examine him. He told us the boy had suffered great physical abuse. And he was..” Aurand trailed off, as if he could barely bring himself to say the words. “Pardon me, Monsieur, but the boy was sodomized.” 



“Oh,” Valjean gasped out in shock. There was no doubt that these had to be the same men who attacked Javert. 



“I’m sorry, Monsieur,” Aurand said shakily. “The boy did not speak to us; he hasn’t spoken at all after he told his mother he was taken. We have no description of the men, we’re not even sure how many attacked him.” 



Valjean chewed his lip. “Do you think there’s any possibility that the men who attacked him could be the same men who have been lurking about and stealing at night?” 



“It’s hard to say, Monsieur. We know Montreuil is very safe, so it would be an odd coincidence for there to be two different sets of men carrying out crime. But with the boy unable to speak, there would be no way for us to know for certain,” replied Aurand. 



Valjean blinked back tears, feeling terribly sorry for the poor child, but also concerned how Javert would react to this information. He had a horrible feeling that Javert would blame himself for not reporting his attack. Valjean rose from his seat, pacing anxiously. “I will accompany you to the Inspector’s home.” 



“Monsieur le Maire, it’s quite late. There’s no need for you to come at this hour. If you would like to come to the station tomorrow morning we can-” 



Valjean cut him off. “I’m coming with you,” he said firmly. “Do you know where the Inspector lives?” 



Aurand stood up, nodding nervously at Valjean. “Yes, Monsieur.” 



The constable led Valjean on a brisk walk to the shabby building in which Javert resided. “I believe his apartment is on the second floor,” the officer said, slightly out of breath from the walk. Filled with adrenaline, Valjean used his slightly longer legs to quickly run up the creaky stairs while Aurand trailed behind. When the two reached the landing, Aurand indicated to the apartment on the right. The officer pounded on the door with his fist, waiting a couple minutes for Javert to open the door. When there was no sound of approaching footsteps, the constable looked at Valjean worryingly. “I hope the Inspector is well. Perhaps he’s sleeping.” 



Valjean felt his already racing heart flutter. “Use your cudgel,” he said, his voice rising slightly in worry. 



Aurand obeyed, the sound of the cudgel against the door creating a loud echo in the hallway. Valjean looked around, tapping his foot anxiously as the constable continued pounding. Just when Aurand looked ready to give up, Valjean heard the sound of floorboards creaking from inside. Finally, the door opened a crack, a brown eye peeking out to look at Valjean and Aurand. When he recognized the pair, he pulled the door the rest of the way open, his hands shaking as he did so. It was evident that the man had been asleep; a dressing gown was pulled on haphazardly over his nightshirt and his hair was mussed.



 Valjean couldn’t help but feel affection toward the man, an image of smoothing down the man’s hair and kissing his forehead entered his mind. 

You fool

, he thought. 

He is planning to arrest you in just one day! 




“Constable Aurand,” Javert greeted, nodding at the man. “Monsieur le Maire,” he muttered, not looking over to meet Valjean’s gaze. 



“Inspector Javert,” greeted Aurand, removing his hat respectfully. “I hope you’re well, sir. I am terribly sorry to bother you at your home at this late hour, but there is an urgent situation that I need to discuss with you.” 



A look of confusion passed over Javert’s face. Valjean took a moment to observe him. Though it was slightly shrouded by his hair, Valjean could make out the wound on his head. It looked better, but it had started to form a scab. The bruise on his neck was also still visible. 



After a short pause, Javert’s eyes flashed toward Valjean. “An urgent situation involving Monsieur Madeleine?” Javert’s eyes slightly widened, looking almost panicked. Valjean could imagine that a million thoughts were racing through Javert’s mind. He probably thought Valjean had formed some elaborate scheme in order to avoid arrest. 



“Ah, not quite,” Aurand answered. “I went to his house first because I thought you were still there. I told him of the situation, however, and he wished to accompany me to tell you about it.” 



Javert sighed, stepping aside so that Valjean and Aurand could enter the small and barely furnished apartment. The inspector disappeared for a moment to retrieve the lantern from his bedroom. When he returned, he set it on the table and tied the dressing gown tightly around his waist, motioning for the mayor and constable to sit on the two chairs by the table. He stood next to it, looming over the two men, the dim lighting making him look gaunt and tired. Crossing his arms, he looked over at Aurand. “Well, Constable?” 



“Ah,” Aurand said nervously, fumbling with his hat. “There’s no easy way to say this, Inspector.”



Javert rolled his eyes. “Are you forgetting that I worked at Toulon Prison for 20 years? I have seen my fair share of crime. Just say it plainly.” 



Aurand nodded. “A young boy…I believe he’s about 13 years old…was attacked when his mother sent him out to the well earlier this evening. All he could say was that a group of men took him away. The doctor said he was beaten and raped, sir. The boy hasn’t been able to speak or give us any useful information.” 



Valjean looked over at Javert, who had begun trembling. He uncrossed his arms, placing his hands on the table as if to keep himself upright. “Oh, God,” he murmured. 



Aurand looked at him with wide eyes. “I’m sorry, Inspector. We need your guidance.”



Javert didn’t answer. He lowered his head, his loose hair shrouding his face. His trembling had increased as he continued murmuring, “Oh, God, oh, God,” as if he were possessed. 



Valjean rose, guiding Javert to sit down. He placed his hand on his shoulder. “Javert, are you well?” he asked. Valjean could not imagine what the man was feeling at that moment. Memories of his attack were probably all flooding back. 



Javert drew in a shaky breath. “When you say the boy was raped…do you mean he has been sodomized?” he asked, his voice high and trembling. 



A grim look passed over Aurand’s face, and he nodded. Hand still on Javert’s shoulder, Valjean gave it a light squeeze. However, Javert shoved it off, and ran from the room. Valjean and Aurand stared at each other for a moment before they heard gagging and retching from the other room. 



“The inspector must still be ill,” said Aurand. “I shouldn’t have disturbed him.” 



Valjean grunted back at the constable, before dashing out of the room. He found Javert crouched over a bucket, making sniveling and gagging noises. Valjean leaned down next to him, gathering his hair out of his face. He rubbed his back, the gagging eventually subsiding. After a moment, Valjean realized that Javert was just weeping into the bucket. Gently guiding him up, Valjean helped him sit on the edge of his bed. Keeping his head bowed, Javert allowed Valjean to wipe the saliva and mucus from his face with his handkerchief. When he was done, Javert buried his head in his hands and sobbed. He was murmuring again, but Valjean couldn’t make out what he was saying. He wrapped his arm around the Inspector, unsure of what he could say to comfort the man. 



After a couple minutes Javert lifted his face out of his hands. “It’s my fault,” he said, hiccupping. “It’s all my fault.” He was breathing heavily, as if he had just finished running. 



“Shh,” Valjean said. “It’s not your fault. They hurt you too, Javert.” 



Javert made a choking sound, and through tears, started panting. “I can’t breathe. My God, I can’t breathe,” he said. He doubled over, placing his hands near his lungs. 



Valjean leaned over him, alarmed. “Javert?” Placing his hand gently on his chest, he could feel how quickly the man’s heart was racing. 



Javert coughed and made a sound as if he were being strangled. Valjean gripped his hand, helping him lie on the bed. 



“Constable!” Valjean shouted. “Send for a doctor now!”



Aurand rushed into the room, looking alarmed. “What’s wrong, Monsieur?” 



Valjean motioned to Javert, who was panting and crying. “He’s not well. He said he can’t breathe and his heart is racing. Hurry!” 



Aurand fled from the room. All Valjean could do was pray that a doctor would arrive swiftly. Still holding on to Javert’s clammy hand, he brought it up to his lips, kissing it and murmuring prayers against it. 



Javert became agitated, his skin glistening with sweat. He untied his dressing gown, and Valjean helped him slip it off. Javert gripped Valjean’s hand tightly. “I’m going to die,” he sobbed. “Holding the hand of a thief.” 



“You aren’t going to die,” Valjean said, trying his best to sound calm. “A doctor is on his way. You will be fine. Save your breath, now.” 



While they waited for Aurand, Valjean quickly fetched a damp cloth. Using one hand to smooth the hair from his face, he used his other to place the cool cloth against Javert’s sweaty forehead. Javert suddenly clung to Valjean’s hair, and through his tears, he pulled Valjean’s face close to his. “I should be taken to jail,” he gasped. “I’ve done wrong.” 



Valjean felt a twinge of pain at those words. “Shhh,” he said. With his face so close to Javert’s, he couldn’t resist closing the gap between them, kissing him chastely on the lips. He then continued, kissing his cheeks, and forehead, and even placing one on the end of his nose. Javert had his eyes squeezed shut, tears running down his cheeks. 



“I will take your place in Toulon, Valjean,” whispered Javert. “You don’t deserve it. I do.” 




He doesn’t know what he’s saying. He’s delirious,

 thought Valjean. “I told you to be quiet,” Valjean growled sternly. Immediately feeling guilty at his tone, he kissed Javert’s cheeks again. 



The two sat in silence for what felt like hours, though it was really only minutes. Javert had gone quiet; the only sound he made was his panting and an occasional sniffle. Valjean ran the cloth over his face down to his sweaty chest, avoiding the bruise around his neck, in what he hoped was a comforting motion. He used his other hand to gently stroke his hair, all the while praying silently for the man, and for the poor boy that had been attacked. 



Finally, he heard the door swing open and the sound of two pairs of feet walking swiftly across the creaky floors. Montreuil had only a few physicians in town, and the doctor Aurand had retrieved was Doctor Dubois, a kind-looking older man whom Valjean had met before. 



“Hello, Monsieur Madeleine,” the doctor greeted. “Hello, Inspector. What’s troubling you?” He looked down at Javert, but Javert just moaned, thrashing a bit on the bed. 



“I’m not sure, Doctor,” Valjean replied. “He seems to be having trouble breathing and his heart was beating exceptionally fast. He may be feverish as well, he’s sweating profusely.” 



“Thank you, Monsieur. I ask that you and the constable give the inspector some privacy while I examine him,” Doctor Dubois said, setting his kit down on the bed. Valjean squeezed Javert’s shoulder before reluctantly following Aurand out of the room. 



Valjean and the constable sat at the table in silence while the doctor performed his examination. Valjean could hear Dubois murmuring to Javert, but couldn’t hear if the inspector was responding. As soon as the bedroom door opened, Valjean rose to his feet. 



“Monsieur le Maire. Constable,” Dubois said, nodding to them both. “There is no sign of any current illness. His heart is beating quickly, but the beats are steady and not abnormal. His pulse is slightly elevated but still in the normal range. His lungs are clear. His temperature is normal. He appears to be suffering from hysteria of some sort. I offered him laudanum so he could sleep but he refused.” 



A look of confusion passed over Aurand’s face. “Does he need to be taken to an institution?” he asked. 



“No!” Valjean interjected, a feeling of panic rising in his throat. “He has not gone mad.” 



The doctor nodded. “He’s coherent. He hasn’t gone mad. He’s suffering from some temporary bout of nervousness.” 



Valjean breathed a sigh of relief. “Thank you, Doctor.” 



Dubois paused. “There is something else, though,” the doctor said, his voice dripping with concern. “Constable, has the Inspector been beaten recently?” 



Valjean’s heart sank. 



“Not that I’m aware,” Aurand replied, his eyes wide with shock. 



“When I was examining him, I was shocked by the amount of bruising on his body. The worst is on his legs, but he has some around his ribs too. I don’t know if you also noticed that he has a head wound and bruising on his neck. I asked him what happened, but he didn’t answer,” Dubois said. “Come, you must see this, Constable.” 



Standing on shaky legs, Valjean followed the men into the bedroom. Javert seemed to have calmed some, perhaps assured by the doctor that he wouldn’t die. He lay with one arm draped over his face, his chest rising and falling rapidly. Despite the noise of the three men walking across the wooden floors, Javert did not move his arm to look at them. 



“Inspector,” said Dubois. “I need to show the constable your injuries.” 



The doctor slowly lifted his nightshirt up his slender thighs, revealing some of the bruising. Before the doctor could lift it any higher, however, Javert suddenly thrashed on the bed. He sat up, staring at the men with wild eyes. “Stop!” he yelled, yanking the shirt down. 



“Inspector?” asked Aurand, who had taken a couple steps toward the bed. “What happened, sir?” He reached his hand out, apparently just now noticing the bruising on Javert’s neck. 



Backing away, Javert curled in on himself, trembling. Valjean knew he needed to intervene. “Can’t you see he’s in no state to talk?” he said, voice slightly raised. “He needs to rest.” 



Javert looked over at Valjean with a pained expression. "Tomorrow,” Javert said quietly. “I will talk to you tomorrow, Constable.” 



Aurand nodded. “Yes, sir.” 



Doctor Dubois touched Javert’s arm. “You ought to have the constable stay with you here tonight.” 



“That’s not necessary,” Valjean interrupted. “I shall stay with him. Go home and rest, Constable.” 



“But, Monsieur, what shall we do about those scoundrels? I can’t rest until they’re caught,” Aurand replied. 



“Send out patrols all night. Don’t stop until they’re caught,” Javert said with a strained voice. “Go now! Leave me be.” Still curled in on himself, he lay back down. 


 


The constable and doctor made haste, quickly leaving the bedroom. Before leaving the apartment, Dubois pulled Valjean aside, telling him to ensure that Javert drank water and ate a proper meal. Valjean agreed, and after seeing the men out, he brought a cup of water back to the bed. 



“You don’t protest me being here?” Valjean asked nervously, sitting on the edge of the bed. 



Javert rolled over, eyeing him. “I have no one,” he choked out. “If I died in the night, no one would find me for days.” 



Valjean sighed, smoothing some hair from Javert’s forehead. “Well, you aren’t going to die. The doctor said your health is good.” 



“Right. He said my ailment is mental, not physical. If you wish to share a bed with a madman, then so be it,” Javert said. He sat up, taking the cup from Valjean’s hand. 



Valjean almost wanted to smile at that, happy to see that at least some of Javert’s personality was emerging. He seemed much better than the shaking and crying mess he was earlier. 



“Only if you wish to share a bed with a thief…” Valjean trailed off nervously. 



The corners of Javert’s mouth turned up, as if resisting the urge to smile. “I already have, haven’t I? What difference does it make now?” 



After Javert finished drinking the water, he lay back down, closing his eyes. Valjean settled himself into a more comfortable position, but still remained seated. He didn’t want to lay in Javert’s bed without his consent. It only took a few moments for Valjean to begin drifting off to sleep. 



However, he was startled awake by Javert grabbing at his arm. To Valjean’s surprise, he was dragged down to lay on the bed next to Javert. His head rested on Javert’s pillow, the two incredibly close. 



Javert leaned into him. “I read your sister’s letter. You love those children, that much is clear. So much so that you went to prison for them. You were like a father to them?” 



Valjean blinked in surprise. “Yes,” he murmured. “Especially for the youngest ones, I was the closest thing to a father they ever knew. I love them. I miss them.” 



Javert touched Valjean’s face. “Where are they now?” 



Valjean choked back a sob. “I don’t know. Most likely dead.” 



Javert looked up at Valjean, his eyes appearing to be watery with tears as well. He pulled Valjean’s face down to his own, kissing his lips gently. The two embraced, limbs tangling together as they both let tears roll down their faces until they both drifted to sleep. 



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Javert woke to the sound of Valjean lightly snoring next to him. The two were still tangled together; Javert had one long leg draped over the other man, and Valjean had his arms wrapped around Javert. The previous night had been strange from beginning to start. He had been terrified when he was awoken to pounding at the door; he was certain his attackers had found where he lived. He had cowered in his bedroom in fear until something nagged at him to answer the door. For some reason, the possibility of Valjean being at his door excited him. Maybe he had finally come to check on him. He wasn’t sure why he had fantasies about Valjean coming to care for him. Though he had been put through the most hellish experience of his life, it had been almost…

nice

…to be doted on and cared for. 



When the door opened to reveal Valjean and Constable Aurand, Javert had been worried that somehow the constable had found out about Valjean and had brought him to Javert before arresting him. However, the reality of the situation was just as horrible. The hysteria it sent him into was nothing that Javert had ever experienced before. He truly had thought he was dying; he thought his body would forget how to breathe or that his heart would just give out. If Valjean hadn’t been there, if it was just the idiot constable on his own, Javert thought he would’ve gone completely mad. 



He looked at the older man, his handsome face peaceful with sleep. Javert had been truly angry when he departed the mayor’s house earlier in the week, filled with hate and rage. He had screamed into his pillow that night, furious that he hadn’t caught the man sooner. He felt humiliated as well, at the way he had allowed Valjean to touch him. After spending much too long simply laying in bed, hardly able to move, something had spurred him to read Valjean’s sister’s letter again. 



Reading it for the second time had brought forth emotions that Javert thought he had buried a long time ago. Despite himself, he felt nearly…sympathetic to Valjean’s plight. What Javert had endured during his attack almost seemed to challenge his long-held view: that a crime was a crime no matter the circumstances. Yet now, stealing a loaf of bread to save a dying child did not seem it should be even in the same category of raping and beating someone. He experienced true evil that night, and if he was honest with himself, the Valjean he knew now did not seem to hold an ounce of that wickedness. Perhaps he truly had gone mad. 



Javert sighed, stirring slightly as he moved his leg, which had grown heavy with lack of circulation, off of Valjean. This movement roused Valjean, who apologized and removed his arms from around Javert’s body. The two lay in uncomfortable silence for several minutes, neither sure of what to say. 



Finally, Valjean broke the silence. “Are you feeling better?” 



Javert laughed, which took Valjean aback. “My body feels better. However, I think I may have gone mad.” 



Valjean blinked in confusion. “Why do you say that? You seem of sound mind to me.” 



“Because I still want to do this, even knowing who you are,” Javert answered, leaning in to kiss Valjean. Gasping, Valjean opened his mouth, allowing Javert to curiously poke his tongue inside. He had seen lovers do this before, but had never understood the appeal. Now though, it’s all he wanted. He wanted to devour Valjean’s mouth. 



Valjean seemed equally hungry. He responded eagerly to Javert’s inexperienced, rough kisses, moaning in earnest. He allowed Javert to explore his mouth with his tongue, letting out appealing little gasps when Javert removed his tongue to suckle on his lips. Boldly, Valjean grabbed Javert’s hair and initiated a hard, biting kiss. Javert realized faintly that their teeth were clashing as they greedily kissed and bit each other. When Javert pulled back to gasp for air, he felt a surge of arousal at seeing Valjean’s already plump lips appear swollen and red; they would probably be bruised from the rough treatment. 



When Javert started to lean back in, Valjean stopped him. Javert sighed in disappointment, but Valjean licked the corner of Javert’s mouth before murmuring, “I need to take my clothes off before I stain them.”



It was only then that Javert saw Valjean’s arousal straining in the front of his trousers. “Oh,” Javert choked out. He realized that he was also painfully aroused, leaking against his nightshirt. 



Valjean quickly stripped himself of his trousers and drawers. His cock seemed to look bigger and fuller than Javert had remembered when he had watched him with his eyes half closed. Javert felt his mouth watering looking at it, all the fantasies of him servicing Monsieur Madeleine under his desk came flooding back to memory. If only he had known how beautiful his cock was then! He would’ve found a way to become “Madeleine’s” cockwarmer. 



When Valjean sat back down, his shirt still on, Javert grabbed his wrist. “This too,” he said, grabbing on to the shirt sleeve. 



A look of shame passed over Valjean’s face. “Ah..but my scars. They aren’t appealing…” 



Javert slipped his own nightshirt off. “And is my bruised body appealing?” 



Valjean stuttered for a moment, a pretty pink color staining his cheeks. “Your body is very attractive.” He curiously reached down to touch a pink nipple, causing Javert to shudder. 



“And so is yours,” Javert responded, pushing Valjean down to a lying position. Javert straddled him, and the men both gasped and moaned as their manhoods touched. Javert forced himself to sit still for a moment, and Valjean did not fight as Javert unbuttoned his shirt. Once it was removed, Javert sat back, admiring the strong chest and stomach. He leaned down to kiss one of Valjean’s scarred wrists tenderly, and Valjean made a noise that was somewhere in between a moan and sob. 



“Will you turn around for me?” asked Javert gently, as he shifted off of Valjean. “I just want to see.” 



Valjean shuddered, but complied, exposing his scarred back to Javert. Javert drew in a shaky breath, seeing the harsh, red lines which hadn’t seemed to fade even with the passage of time. He gently traced the lines with his finger, feeling the slightly raised flesh. When Valjean made a small, distressed sound, Javert quickly stopped. 



“I’m sorry,” he whispered. He kissed his shoulder tenderly, before whispering another apology. When he turned Valjean back around, the man’s eyes were red-rimmed and teary. Javert’s heart ached at the sight as he straddled Valjean, placing a gentle kiss on his lips. Looking down at his bicep, he saw the brand there in bold letters: 24601. Though he wanted to kiss that as well, he decided against it. 



Instead, he grinded his hips down into Valjean’s. Valjean gasped, reflexively thrusting his hips up. Javert took Valjean’s large member in hand, giving him two gentle strokes. Valjean was already leaking copious amounts of fluid onto Javert’s fingers. 



“When was the last time you did this to yourself?” Javert asked, amazed at how wet Valjean had become. He continued stroking, pulling back the foreskin. 



Valjean moaned. “I don’t….don’t ever…,” he gasped. “Toulon. The last time was in Toulon.” 



To take apart this pure, chaste man who never even took a hand to himself made this even more arousing to Javert. “Good,” he murmured, moving his hand down to Valjean’s balls. Valjean thrashed as Javert gently fondled them. Javert wanted to try something else as well. Leaning down, he gave Valjean’s cock a couple kitten licks, causing Valjean to practically shout. When Javert kissed the tip, Valjean gasped, his body tensing. Suddenly, a great flood of semen was released onto Javert’s face. But instead of feeling disgusting, Javert felt a great deal of satisfaction as he felt the fluid dribbling down his chin. He licked Valjean’s softening member clean, wanting to taste every drop of release that he could. 



Valjean thrashed from the oversensitivity. He tugged on Javert’s hair. “Ah, that’s enough, Javert.” When Javert pulled back, Valjean eyed him guiltily. “I’m so sorry, I should’ve told you when I was going to…” 



Javert simply smiled, leaning down to pick up his nightshirt. As he wiped his face with it, he said, “In my fantasies, Monsieur Madeleine did much worse to me. He made me kneel for hours, he made my jaw ache, he made me choke and gag on his release.” 



Valjean’s jaw dropped open and his cock twitched slightly at the words. “I hadn’t the faintest idea..” 



“What would you have done to me if you would have known?” Javert asked, laying back down beside him. 



Valjean blushed. “I…I don’t know…”



“Would you want me like that? Me, naked, under your desk, nursing your cock?” Javert asked. He began rutting against Valjean’s hip. 



“Yes,” Valjean choked out. “I would’ve liked that.” 



“You know what I did after the first time we met? I went home, and took my trousers off, and rutted against the pillow like this, thinking the most filthy things about you,” Javert gasped out, grinding his cock against Valjean’s hips. 



“Oh God, Javert,” Valjean moaned. He shifted to his side, pulling Javert’s in his arms. He slotted his leg in between Javert’s. “Keep going. Bring yourself to pleasure.”



“Do you like this? Me humping your leg like some bitch in heat?” Javert cried out, as he slid his cock up and down Valjean’s muscular thigh. 



“Yes,” Valjean murmured. He leaned into Javert’s neck, kissing and nibbling. He made his way up to his ear, gently biting it. “Good boy. Come for me.” 



Javert’s eyes rolled back at the words. He sprayed his release on Valjean’s thigh, sighing in pleasure. After catching his breath, he untangled himself from Valjean’s arms. He laid back, laughing quietly to himself. “I truly have lost my mind,” he sighed. 



Valjean simply shushed him, kissing his forehead. 


Valjean confesses more of his crimes to Javert, and Javert makes his report. They're both very sad and struggle with feelings of self-loathing, but seek comfort with each other.


Valjean should have felt guilty. But he simply couldn’t. Looking at Javert, who finally looked calm and satiated after his orgasm, Valjean couldn’t feel anything but satisfaction. He had remained chaste for all these years, yet he felt no shame in allowing Javert to touch him and put his mouth on him. Though his previous release while he grinded against Javert had felt good, it did not compare to the orgasm he just had, with Javert’s pink little tongue against him. The image of Javert looking up at Valjean with his spend all over his face, even dripping from his eyelashes, was one that made Valjean’s cock start twitching again. Valjean had denied himself pleasure for so long (other than the occasional unintentional nocturnal release), that the slightest touch from Javert made him pulse with need. 



And how shocking it was to find out that Javert had wanted this for so long from Madeleine! The fantasy that Javert had shared was nothing like Valjean had ever heard before. Of course, it could’ve never happened back then. Valjean would not have allowed it, and he doubted if Javert would actually risk his career in that manner. Besides, Valjean had spent so long living in fear from the man that it never had occurred to him how attractive the inspector was. As Valjean studied him now, he wasn’t sure how he couldn’t have noticed Javert’s striking features. Thinking back though, Javert cut quite a dashing figure with his tall, slim body in both his police and prison guard uniforms. Apart from his body, his face was lovely, cheekbones high and jaw square and firm. But his eyes especially made Valjean pause. They were big and brown and always seemed to contain a hint of sadness within. Valjean enjoyed seeing his long eyelashes shroud them, especially when they were fluttering in pleasure. Though his lips were usually tight and thin, Valjean had grown to enjoy seeing the rare smile from them. He thought back, remembering times when Javert was giving his reports when he would become pleased with himself for catching some petty thief. His lip curled up happily, his eyes crinkling ever so slightly. Now, his lips were relaxed and open, red and swollen from being kissed and bitten. Valjean thought there couldn’t be a more beautiful sight. 



Unfortunately, they could not lay about all day basking in pleasure. Javert had told Aurand last night that he would come to the station that day to make his report. It was also the day that Javert had said he would come back for Valjean. Valjean felt sick at the prospect of both of these. Would he turn him in at the police station? Valjean recalled Javert’s words the previous night, when he was suffering from his bout of nervousness:

 I will take your place in Toulon, Valjean

. Did he really feel this way? Was Javert capable of forgiving him? 



Valjean didn’t realize he had sighed out loud until Javert looked over at him. “Apologies,” Javert said, clearing his throat awkwardly. “I should get a towel to clean my…um…” Javert flushed, “...release off of you.” 



It hadn’t even occurred to Valjean that Javert’s semen was drying on his thigh. He didn’t mind it; in fact, Valjean found it arousing to have the fluid on his skin. Valjean smiled, putting his hand on Javert’s arm to stop him from getting up. “It’s alright. That’s not what’s concerning me. I’m just thinking about what we have to do today.”



Javert stilled, breath hitching in his throat. 



Valjean paused, examining him. “You know…you don’t have to do it. You don’t have to make a report. We could…” Valjean trailed off, looking down at Javert. He gave into the urge to card his fingers through Javert’s hair. “We could run off. Forget any of this happened.” 



Javert’s brows furrowed together. “Unlike you, I do not run away from consequences,” he hissed, sitting up. Valjean removed his fingers from Javert’s hair, backing away. “It’s my duty to make a report. If I neglect to do it, they will rape someone else. Perhaps another child…” Javert’s trailed off, his voice choking. 



“I know,” Valjean replied, his voice trembling. “I don’t know why I suggested it. I know you would never do such a thing. You’re a better man than I.” 



Javert stared back at Valjean, his eyes watery. He had begun to tremble, shaking his head slightly. “I’m not. I’m not a better man than you.” Tears slipped from his eyes, as he continued, his voice coming high and shaky. “I caused a child to be raped. You saved a child from starvation. I deserve everything you suffered in Toulon.” 



Valjean leaned over the man, cradling his head against his chest. Javert buried his head into Valjean’s breast, little whimpers escaping from his throat. “You did not cause a child to be raped. You had no way of knowing this could happen. If anything, I am just as at fault. When I went to the police station, I told them to stop patrolling until you returned. I suppose I was hoping that the men would just move on to a different town,” Valjean sighed. He waited for Javert to become angry at him for this admission, but the anger never came. 



“You’re not at fault,” Javert murmured. “I’m an inspector. I knew it was wrong to neglect making a report.” 



Valjean leaned down to place his lips to Javert’s head. “Besides, I didn’t just steal bread. You very well know that I escaped; my third break from prison. The law says that my consequence is life imprisonment. Not only this, Javert, but I was disrespectful and insubordinate to you.” Valjean drew in a shaky breath. 



Javert was weeping harder, his sobs loud and broken. He had wrapped his arms so tightly around Valjean that it was almost painful. 



Valjean paused. He felt the overwhelming urge to confess something that he had only ever confessed to God. “As soon as I escaped prison, I committed more crimes. I entered into a farmer’s barn to break my chains. He caught me, and he had a gun. I was filled with such rage then, I was really more beast than man. I managed to grapple with him, and I hit him so hard that he passed out. I robbed him of some clothing.” Valjean had entered a nearly trance-like state as he continued. “I then attempted to rob a butcher. He caught me, and I grappled with him as well. I hit him too. I assaulted two different men, and left them unconscious. I didn’t think about that then, I just continued running. It was then, when the Bishop I told you about let me into his home. He welcomed me without hesitation. He fed me, and gave me a place to sleep. Yet, I betrayed his trust. When he retired to bed, I stole silver from him and ran. Some policemen caught me, and took me back to Bishop Myriel’s home. If he would have said what I really did, I would have immediately been back to Toulon for the rest of my life. Instead, he told the policemen that he had given the silver to me.” Valjean’s voice broke off, realizing that he was starting to cry. Javert hadn’t moved his head from being buried in Valjean’s chest, hiding his face. 



“After the police left, he gave me two very fine pieces of silver, his candlesticks. He told me that he bought my soul and gave it to God. He forgave me for my transgressions. He sent me off that day, telling me that I needed to become an honest man. And from that day forward, I was. It’s still hard for me to understand how one could love a complete stranger. I didn’t deserve it. But he gave me a new life, a wonderful life…” Valjean stopped, realizing that he was rambling. His tears were falling into Javert’s hair, but Javert didn’t move, his arms still tight around Valjean. 



The two men sniffled for several minutes, letting the silence linger. After a time, Javert murmured something into Valjean’s chest. Valjean gently pushed him back, looking down at his face. The man’s eyes were puffy and his nose was red. 



“Do you know that you’ve become like him?” Javert said, his voice hoarse. He continued, “Instead of a stranger, you let an enemy into your home. You carried him like a babe into your house, when you could’ve just left him to be found by others and humiliated. You cared for his wounds. You told him you would protect him, even if it meant you would be killed. That enemy also betrayed your trust, he rifled through your things while you were away and he threatened you. And yet, you still came back in a time of need to care for him. He…that enemy, didn’t deserve it.” 



“Oh, Javert,” Valjean said, voice cracking. “I don’t view you as an enemy. You deserved it, you deserve someone to care for you. You deserve anything you could ever want…” Leaning down, he kissed Javert. Javert sobbed into it, but grasped onto Valjean’s hair, kissing him desperately. 



Valjean eventually backed off, brushing tears from Javert’s face. “I could never be as good a man as Bishop Myriel. However, he did teach me how to forgive. And I have.” Valjean paused, sighing quietly. “Did you not hear all the crimes I have confessed to you? The time for my punishment is well overdue. I am ready to go back to Toulon.” 



Javert backed away from Valjean, rising from the bed. He paced frantically, running his hands through his hair. “A few days ago, I wanted nothing more than to shackle you and drag you back to prison. Now I…I simply cannot. If you wish to turn yourself in, you may. I do not wish you to though.” 



Valjean felt his mouth drop open in surprise. “But why? Why do you not wish to see me punished now?” 



Javert sat down forcefully on the bed, facing away from Valjean. “I can’t explain. I don’t want to explain.” 



The bizarre turn of events made Valjean’s head spin. Perhaps Javert had gone mad. Before Valjean could speak again, Javert laughed quietly. “I used to think you were evil. I didn’t know what evil was until that night.” He sighed, laying back down on the bed, curling his legs up to his chest. “I fear I have been cruel. I remember taking reports of rape at Toulon, and I had no understanding why the men would be so upset, driven nearly to insanity from it. I understand now. The whole ordeal is degrading and humiliating and evil. One can be driven mad from it.” 



Valjean nodded, surprised at Javert’s frankness. He leaned over Javert’s curled up body. “How are your injuries?” he asked gently. He brushed the hair from his forehead, examining the wound. It appeared that it would heal well; it had formed a scab, but did not appear open and weeping like it had previously. His bruises were darker, but Valjean knew that only meant they were healing. 



“I am fine,” said Javert, looking away. “I am not in as much pain. I can walk without limping.” 



Guiding Javert to his belly, Valjean examined the injuries on his backside. They didn’t look much better, and Valjean knew it was probably painful for the inspector to sit. Ghosting his fingers over Javert’s buttocks, Valjean drew in a breath. Javert turned his head, blinking at Valjean. Surprisingly, he gripped his backside, spreading his buttocks to reveal that small pink hole. Valjean held in a gasp at the obscene sight. 



“Does it look better, monsieur?” Javert said, his voice a little strained. He didn’t break his eye contact with Valjean, blinking expectedly up at him. 



Valjean took a deep breath, trying to will away the arousal he felt curling in his belly. He chastised himself for looking at the man with lust in a time like this, especially after they had just been discussing rape. After taking a moment to breathe, Valjean looked over Javert’s opening. It did not appear to be swollen as it had been before. Clearing his throat, Valjean said, “It looks better. Are you still sore inside?”  



“No,” Javert murmured. He still held himself open, looking up at Valjean with his big eyes, as if waiting for him to touch him. 



Valjean drew in another breath, resisting the urge to touch him. 

Now’s not the time

, he told himself firmly. He instead guided Javert’s hands off himself. With a look of disappointment, Javert obeyed, laying his hands flat on the bed. As if to apologize, Valjean kissed the small of Javert’s back. 



Javert studied Valjean for a moment, a blush forming over his face. “I would let you…you could…” Javert paused, looking terribly embarrassed. “You could have me. If you wish.” He buried his face in the pillow, as if mortified he had just said those words out loud. 



Valjean gasped, his heart beating quickly in his chest. “Javert, you don’t need to be embarrassed. Look at me.” He waited until Javert turned to look at him, his face flushed crimson. “We shouldn’t do that right now. You’re still recovering. Besides, I don’t know…” Now it was Valjean’s turn to flush. “I don’t know how to do any of…this.” 



“I don’t either,” Javert said softly. Valjean realized he must have had a nervous look on his face, as Javert reached for his hand, kissing it gently. “We don’t have to. I just thought perhaps you’d want to.” 



Valjean flushed, looking away. He truly didn’t know what he wanted, just that he enjoyed bringing Javert pleasure. His own pleasure felt secondary. 



Javert seemed to be deep in thought, as he grasped Valjean’s hand tightly. “Pardon me for asking this.” He paused, drawing in a trembling breath. “They never…in Toulon…no one ever hurt you, did they? I was told of many more men being raped but they never reported it to us.” 



Valjean shuddered, remembering the horrible things he had seen occur there. “No. When I first arrived at Toulon, I remember some men saying things to me, making some implications that they would. But when they saw my strength, no one ever touched me.” Valjean paused, cringing at his choice of words. “Not to say you are weak, Javert. It’s just…in prison-” 



Javert gave him a strange smile. “Compared to you, I am weak. Men like that target those they deem weak or vulnerable. I was both that night.” 



Valjean shook his head, but was unable to say anything, feeling overwhelmed with his memories. He was trembling, something that seemed to occur whenever he thought about Toulon for too long. Suddenly, he recalled the vile things the prisoners would say about the guards. Many had violent fantasies about killing or raping them. Valjean never had interest in these conversations; he was too occupied thinking of a way to escape. However, he remembered that Javert seemed to be the target of many of their conversations. 



Valjean bent forward, putting his head in his hands. He wished he could scrub all the disgusting memories from his mind. “I cannot bear to think about Toulon any longer,” he murmured. 



“Well,” Javert replied quietly. “Then get dressed so you can accompany me to the police station. That is, if you still wish to accompany me to make my report.” Javert still held Valjean’s hand, gripping it tightly. 



“I do,” Valjean said, despite the nervous flutter of his heart. 



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Javert dressed in the remnants of his uniform; he had vigorously scrubbed at his jacket until the stains had come out. He could not help but feel embarrassed at the thin trousers he had to wear, paired with an old pair of scuffed boots. Javert had considered wearing the much nicer shoes he had taken from Valjean’s home when he fled the other night, but they were too tight and uncomfortable on his feet. He had sheepishly given the clothing Valjean had loaned him back to him, and Valjean simply smiled, grateful for a second set of clothes to wear that day. 



Valjean was always quick with a smile, something that had charmed Javert even back when he was posing as Madeleine. It embarrassed him, that a mere smile from the man had his heart fluttering. The feelings he had for this man were too complex, too confusing for Javert to dwell on. Even after Valjean had confessed his wrongdoings, Javert could not bear the thought of sending the man back to prison. When Valjean spoke of those times, he became a different person, eyes glazed over, trembling from head to toe. Javert knew the prisoners were cruel to each other, but he apparently hadn’t been privy to everything that happened behind the cell doors. In a darker part of Javert’s mind, he considered the fact that Valjean’s distress may have stemmed from the guards’ treatment as well. Javert reminded himself that he was following the law, he was serving out justice. And yet…was it cruel to send Valjean to the hole for months on end for insolence? Was it cruel to have brought the lash down on his back? Javert remembered how Valjean had whimpered when Javert touched those raised red lines. It made Javert wish that his attack would leave him with his own scars, so that he would have a reminder, just as Valjean had the reminder of Toulon forever on his back and wrists, and even branded on his arm. 



Javert was broken from his stormy thoughts by Valjean sitting next to him on the bed. He was freshly dressed and had combed his hair. He brought a hand up to Javert’s hair. “Will you let me comb your hair?” 



Again, this unyielding kindness and care. Javert couldn’t comprehend why Valjean could ever want to help him, why he’d be affectionate to him, how he could possibly care for him after everything that occurred in Toulon. What’s more, Javert didn’t understand how Valjean could bear to touch him so intimately, despite knowing that he had been ruined by those men. He didn’t touch him with disgust, he wasn’t sickened by his body. In fact, he seemed very attracted to Javert. Valjean’s look of lust when Javert had spread himself open made Javert want to be invaded by the man, captured and taken roughly with that big cock. But Valjean was too kind, too mindful, perhaps too timid. In the back of Javert’s mind was the hope that Valjean could gain the nerve to do that to him. 



Javert shuddered, feeling arousal in his belly. Trying to ignore it, he allowed Valjean to comb through his hair. Valjean was very carefully avoiding pulling it, giving Javert’s silken locks perhaps the gentlest combing of his life. 

He doesn’t want me to turn into an aroused mess before I make my report

, thought Javert amusedly. With the hair now thoroughly detangled, Valjean finished his work by tying Javert’s hair up with a ribbon. Grabbing one of Valjean’s hands when he withdrew them from Javert’s hair, Javert studied it, observing how large it was, how rough it was in appearance. It was callused and tough from years of labor in prison, and probably even prior, given that he had been a woodcutter. Javert’s hands were rather soft in comparison, uncalloused; the most he did with them was carry his cudgel and write reports. Yet, those rough hands that were capable of great strength were also capable of such gentleness, such soft touches. What kind of strange world was this, that a convict could be described as tender? Javert brought the hand to his lips, kissing one of the callused knuckles. 



Once they were both ready,  Valjean insisted on taking a carriage to the police station despite Javert’s protestations. As they entered the cab, Javert felt almost as if he could vomit again, a horrible, sinking feeling in his stomach. Valjean placed a hand on Javert’s knee, squeezing it reassuringly. “It will all be fine,” he murmured. Javert wanted to protest, but the words didn’t come out. He squeezed his eyes shut for the remainder of the ride, which ended all too quickly. 



Javert exited the cab on wobbly legs, feeling a sense of dread overtake him. Valjean rushed over to his side, grabbing his arm. “I will stay with you. You will be fine,” he whispered soothingly. Javert drew in a shaky breath, nodding at Valjean. He allowed Valjean to continue to hold him by the arm, guiding him into the station. 



As the two men entered, Javert heard a chilling silence suddenly flood the room. The handful of officers had quite literally stopped in the middle of their conversations with one another to turn and look at Javert and Valjean as they crossed the threshold. Flustered, Javert wrenched his arm away from Valjean, standing up straighter. “Why are you all standing around? Get back to work!” he barked. All the men, except for Aurand, scrambled back to their desks. 



“Hello, Inspector,” Aurand said, bowing. “Hello, Monsieur Madeleine. Inspector, are you feeling better today?”



Javert growled. “Nevermind that. Do not speak again of what you saw last night, understand?”  



Aurand nodded. “Sorry, sir.” 



Javert puffed out a sigh of agitation. “Update me on the status of the gang. Did you catch them?”



Aurand stood a little straighter, a nervous look crossing his face. “We believe we found two of them, sir. We are holding them in a cell now.” 



Trembling, Javert turned, glancing at Valjean. The man nodded at him reassuringly, before Javert turned back to Aurand. “What a pity that you lot couldn’t catch all of them,” snarled Javert. “Why are there not more officers out searching right now? Who is giving orders?” 



“I am, Inspector,” said Aurand, his voice shaking. “We have a patrol out now. I didn’t think they would be out during the day, sir. We are very behind on writing reports.” 



“I don’t care!” Javert shouted. The other officers turned to look at Javert, the room becoming deathly quiet. “You all, form a patrol, now! You are not to stop until you find the other four.” The men obeyed, jumping into action. 



Once the other officers left, Aurand turned to Javert. “Shall we go into your office, sir?” 



Javert sighed quietly. “Yes.” 



As Aurand led the way into the office, Valjean placed a reassuring hand on Javert’s back. Javert stiffened, resisting the urge to bat the hand away. When Javert sat down, still slightly wincing from the wounds on his backside, Aurand looked at him expectedly, pen in hand. Javert looked down at the floor, feeling as if he couldn’t bring himself to begin speaking. 



Aurand cleared his throat, breaking the silence. “You were beaten, sir? Who did this to you?” 



Javert could feel Valjean looking at him from the corner of his eye. “The same men who hurt the boy.” He hated how his voice came out with a tremble. 



Aurand furrowed his brows. “How can you be sure, Inspector? It could’ve been another gang that wanted to attack an officer.” 



Javert felt his whole body begin to shake. Valjean placed his hand on his shoulder, squeezing it lightly. “They did the same things to me that they did to the boy.” 



“They raped you?” asked Aurand incredulously. “How did this happen? Did you not have your gun?” 



“They hit my head against the wall of an alley. I became disoriented and dropped it; they were able to get it from me,” Javert replied, his voice soft. 



“Tell me exactly what happened that night, Inspector,” Aurand said. “We will need a detailed report to send to Paris.” 



Javert drew in a shaking breath. The sinking feeling was in his stomach again; he knew his career would be over once the report was sent. He would never be respected again, but there was no turning back now. Looking down at his hands, Javert said, “After I told you all to go home, I came upon a group of men in an alleyway. I knew it was the thieves we were looking for. I foolishly thought pointing my gun at them would be enough for them to come with me peacefully. They weren’t afraid of me. I tried shooting at them, but missed. They hit my head against the wall and were very quickly able to overtake me. They took my gun and cudgel, and handcuffed me with my own handcuffs.”



“How many of them were there?” Aurand asked. 



“Six,” replied Javert. He continued, “They threatened me, they said if I didn’t obey them, they would kill me and leave my naked body out in the street for everyone to see.” Javert’s voice broke off. The solid weight of Valjean’s hand was still on his shoulder, and he felt it give another squeeze. “They took me to the park, and that’s where they…” Javert trailed off, not wanting to continue his sentence. 



“Did you not try to fight?” Aurand questioned. 



Javert became agitated, rising from his seat. “No, I didn’t fight them. There were six of them and they were threatening me. What else was I supposed to do?” asked Javert, his voice becoming high in distress. 



Aurand just nodded, looking down at the paper. “What did they do to you?” 



Javert began pacing. “They beat me with my own belt and cudgel. They hit me and kicked me. When they were done with that, that’s when they decided to…rape me.” 



Aurand cleared his throat. “They sodomized you?” 



Javert turned, looking out the window of his office. “Yes,” he replied softly. 



The officer paused. “Did they all or…?”



Javert felt himself begin to tremble. He didn’t turn back to look at the constable or Valjean. “Three that I know of. The other three…” Javert paused, not wanting to say the words. “They…violated me orally,” he murmured. “Then one of them hit me over the head, causing me to go unconscious. In my half-aware state, they violated me again. They then took me to the home of Monsieur le Maire, where he found me.” 



Aurand looked at Valjean. “You knew of this?” 



“Yes,” Valjean replied softly.



“Why did neither of you report this?” Aurand questioned. 



“Do not blame Monsieur Madeleine,” hissed Javert, turning to glare at Aurand. “It is solely my wrongdoing. I was a coward. I didn’t want to endure the shame. I will accept any punishment required of me for this grave error.” 



“I doubt you will receive punishment, sir,” Aurand replied. “Your testimony will be valuable, as I doubt the boy will be in any shape to speak at a trial.” 



The thought of facing those men again made Javert nauseated. He knew Aurand was right, though. His testimony would be important in ensuring the men face justice. Javert would be easily able to identify them, as he would never be able to erase those men’s faces from his memory. 



“Inspector, shall I take you down to the holding cell now? You can see if the men we have are indeed part of the gang,” said Aurand. 



Javert drew in a shaky breath. “Yes.” 



As Aurand led, Valjean took Javert by the arm. “Are you alright, Javert?” he asked quietly. 



Javert simply grunted, averting his gaze from Valjean. As they approached the cell, Javert felt his heart pounding wildly in his chest. Just at a glance, he recognized the men almost immediately. 



The men turned to look at them. Their cruel laughs echoed through the room. “Look who it is,” one sneered. “Monsieur le Maire, and his whore, Monsieur le Inspector.”



Aurand barked at them to shut up, but the men just continued to laugh. Valjean protectively gripped Javert’s arm tighter. 



“Yes, that’s them,” murmured Javert. “I recognize them.” 



“Did the Inspector tell you that he gasped and moaned for us like a whore? Did he tell you that he spent himself several times over?” cried out the other man. 



Before he could think, Javert removed his arm from Valjean’s grasp, fleeing from the room. He could faintly hear Aurand telling them to shut up again, banging his cudgel threatening against the cell bars. Javert found himself outside the station, crouched down on the ground. He began dry heaving, but nothing came out. He wasn’t sure how much time had passed before he felt the strong arms of Valjean around his shoulders, pulling Javert close to his body. 



“Let’s get you home,” Valjean murmured soothingly. 



“No,” said Javert softly. “Aurand needs to complete his report.” 



“He said he has everything he needs. He said to send you home,” Valjean said, stroking his hair. 



When Javert made no move to rise to his feet, Valjean pulled him up. With his arm around Javert’s waist, he guided them to the waiting carriage. Valjean had to practically push Javert into the cab, and Javert remained slumped as the carriage began moving. 



“They are horrible, evil men. I am so sorry, Javert. They will surely receive what they deserve,” murmured Valjean, placing his hand on Javert’s knee. 



“How are you not disgusted with me?” Javert asked, his voice breaking in despair. “What he said was true. My depraved body ejaculated several times. I am no better than a whore. And now, everyone will know about it.” 



“Oh Javert,” said Valjean sadly. “You are neither disgusting nor depraved. You could not help it. Any reasonable person will understand. You did not ask for this.” 



Javert buried his face in his hands. He heard Valjean sigh, before he placed his hand on his back, rubbing it gently. 



When they arrived back at Javert's home, Javert exited the cab in a hurry. He walked briskly up the stairs, leaving Valjean to trail behind him. When Valjean entered the apartment behind Javert, Javert turned to him, staring at the man. Valjean looked concerned, a great sadness in his eyes. 



Javert cleared his throat. “I’ve never properly thanked you. You’ve done so much for me, and I’ve done nothing for you in return, save for bringing you sorrow and grief.” His voice was strained, uncomfortable with saying these words out loud. 



“I don’t require thanks,” Valjean said, taking a few steps toward Javert. “I want to help you. And I enjoy spending time with you. You need not worry about how I feel. It just pains me to see you upset, and blaming yourself for what happened.” 



“Please let me express my gratitude,” Javert said, his voice breathless. Before he could think about what he was doing, he dropped to his knees in front of Valjean, reaching for the buttons on his trousers. 



Valjean gasped. “No, Javert,” he said, gently removing Javert’s hand from his trousers. “Your words are enough. I accept your gratitude.” 



Javert looked down in despair. “I understand. You don’t want this from me any longer, now that you know the full extent of my depravity.” 



“No,” Valjean said, crouching down to be at Javert’s level. “That is not the case at all. I still want this with you. I just don’t think it is the time to do this.”  



“Well, if it is true that you do not find me disgusting, then just let me,” cried Javert, closing his eyes. “Please let me.” 



Javert heard Valjean let out a shaking breath. “Why don’t we go lie down for a while,” said Valjean quietly. Javert allowed him to help him off the floor, guiding him to the bedroom, where they both laid on the bed. 



Valjean drew Javert to him, gently kissing him. Between breathless kisses, he said, “You aren’t disgusting. I want to show you how beautiful you are, how much I crave you.” Valjean blushed at his own words, but moved to straddle Javert, who gasped up at him. Giving him several more passionate kisses, Valjean worked his way down his neck. “Shall I remove your clothes?” he asked. 



Javert just nodded, overwhelmed with sensation. Once his clothes were off, Valjean kissed his way down his chest, to his belly, before settling before his cock, which had grown rosy and aroused. “I want to take you in my mouth. Please let me do this, Javert. I want nothing more than to do this for you.” He gripped Javert’s cock, gently stroking it. 



Javert could not resist bucking up into the grasp. “I don’t deserve it,” he panted. 



“Yes, you do,” Valjean said. “You are good. You are honest. You are intelligent.” With each compliment, Valjean gave a kiss to Javert’s length. He moved down to lick at the slit, which made Javert cry out. “Now, tell me if you truly do not want me to continue.” He looked up at Javert, his eyes filled with longing. 



Javert quivered with arousal. Despite his self-loathing, Valjean was right where he desperately needed to be touched. So, he did not object when Valjean suddenly took his length inside his warm, wet mouth. Javert cried out in surprise, resisting the urge to buck inside his mouth. “Valjean! God!” he cried. 



Valjean pulled back, looking up at Javert. “So good, you’re so good for me, Javert,” he purred. He took him back into his mouth, licking around the head before taking the rest of the length back inside. Though Valjean seemed tentative, and perhaps drooled an excessive amount around Javert’s cock, it felt like heaven to Javert. Grabbing Valjean’s hair in his fists, Javert pushed himself a little further into Valjean’s mouth, whimpering out in pleasure. Javert began moving his hips gently, only stopping when he heard a slight gagging noise below him. 



“Sorry,” he murmured, removing his hands from Valjean’s hair. 



Valjean pulled back, smiling. “It’s alright. Just be gentle.” 



Valjean licked down his cock again, before taking Javert back in his mouth. Once again, Javert buried his hands into Valjean’s hair, as the other man seemed to get accustomed to the motion, bobbing his head as he slid his mouth up and down Javert’s cock. Looking down at Valjean’s plump lips wrapped around his cock was enough to send Javert close to completion. 



“I’m close,” he whimpered out, his hips bucking nearly on their own accord. 



Valjean pulled off, replacing his mouth with a hand. Instead, he used his mouth to lick below Javert’s cock, his tongue trailing to his testicles. Javert became overwhelmed at the feeling of his facial hair tickling him down there, his toes curling in pleasure. When Valjean moved even lower, licking at his perineum while still eagerly stroking his cock, Javert cried out, legs spreading as he spent in Valjean’s hair. 



When Javert started to apologize for the spend in Valjean’s hair, Valjean shushed him. “You were so good for me, Javert. Thank you for letting me do that for you,” he murmured, kissing him all over his face. 



Before Javert could protest, or even offer to return the favor, Valjean had snuggled against him, his breath slowing as he dozed off. Despite everything, Javert felt the corners of his mouth turn up. He wasn’t sure if he could ever truly understand Valjean. 

What a strange man, 

Javert thought, before he too succumbed to sleep. 


Javert decides he needs to leave his post in Montreuil, but Valjean of course complicates matters.

I thought this was going to be the last chapter, but the smut turned out a little longer than what I originally thought. ;) Stayed tuned, there will be one more chapter.


After a much needed nap with Valjean, Javert became restless and decided to walk back to the police station. The inspector ordered for the two captured gang members to be questioned by his constables (and perhaps threatened with beatings) until they confessed where the officers might find their associates. Javert was also informed that day that his patron had been summoned from Paris and was due to arrive in a couple days. Though Javert had a good relationship with Chabouillet, and he always was very complimentary of Javert’s work, he felt sickened that the man now knew what happened to him. He wondered if Chabouillet would advise that he be moved to a different post. Perhaps it would be a relief if Javert could move to a town where no one knew him. He hated the way his officers looked at him now; their looks were filled with a combination of sympathy and curiosity. Javert couldn’t help his mind from wondering what they thought of him. They probably thought of him as weak, as a coward, maybe they even thought he wanted to be taken by these men like a whore. Javert concurred that he was a weak coward, but he couldn’t stand the thought of anyone assuming that he asked for this to happen. 



What gave Javert pause about moving to a new post was of course Valjean. That difficult, strange man. After their nap, Valjean had insisted on accompanying Javert again to the police station. Javert had to harshly tell him that if he was to be respected by his officers, he couldn’t continue to be dragged around town like the mayor’s dog. Valjean seemed slightly hurt by this, but he relented. Javert found himself frustrated by the man’s stubbornness and unending need to help. In these moments, Javert wondered if it would also be a relief to escape from Valjean’s overbearingness, and the complicated feelings he brought forth. Yet, that part of Javert that he kept hidden away even from himself was clawing toward the surface. It was that part of him that desired to be loved, that wanted to be shown kindness, that sympathized with others. Javert kept trying to shove it down, but it kept bubbling back to the surface, catching him off-guard. 



When he returned, Valjean was still at his apartment waiting for him. He practically begged Javert to come stay at his home again; he used the excuse that he had promised the doctor that he would care for him. It was then that it occurred to Javert: much like himself, Valjean was an incredibly lonely person. Because of his true identity, he of course was very guarded and kept to himself. His only company was the elderly nun housekeeper. This knowledge made Javert’s stony heart ache. So, he stayed with him, eating supper served on Valjean’s fine silver, talking as if they were old friends, and sleeping cuddled together in Valjean’s big bed. 



The sunlight streaming through the windows in Valjean’s bedroom made Javert rouse from his deep sleep. He felt Valjean’s strong arms around his waist, which anchored Javert close to the other man’s body. Gently moving Valjean’s arms from him, Javert shifted around so that he could face the other man, causing Valjean to sigh and shift ever so slightly, but he did not wake. Javert felt his lips turn up as he observed Valjean; his hair was messy and he slept with his mouth open. Javert gently brushed a lock of the older man’s hair from where it had fallen in front of his eye. 



 It was still difficult for Javert to accept that this gentle, kind man lying next to him was the same man - 

the same convict

 - that several years ago had spat in his face and threatened him. Valjean somehow looked so much younger now; the permanent scowl he wore as a convict left no traces on his face. Yet, those years in Toulon showed their mark in other ways besides the scars around Valjean’s wrists and on his back. Though the man was generous and quick with a smile, he seemed permanently on edge, unable to relax, unable to trust another. He enjoyed helping others, while simultaneously wanting to keep his distance from them. Javert recalled too how Valjean would tremble when he talked about his days in prison. Physically escaping prison still did not allow Valjean to shed the anguish it had caused him all these years. And now, it deeply pained Javert to know that he contributed to that anguish. He found himself wishing he could somehow take all that pain from Valjean, and endure it himself. 



Leaning forward, Javert placed a kiss gently to the tip of Valjean’s nose. Valjean stirred, his eyes fluttering open. He blushed, smiling at Javert. “Are you alright, Javert?” he asked quietly. 



Javert grasped Valjean’s wrist, unsure of how to express his thoughts. He brought it up to his mouth, gently kissing the scar. “I wish we had met under different circumstances,” he murmured. “I wish I had never hurt you. I wish you would hurt me back.” 



Valjean’s wrist trembled in Javert’s grasp. “I don’t hold you at fault for anything,” he said quietly. “I suffered, but it was not in vain. I would not be the man I am today if it weren’t for the pain I endured.” Valjean moved his hand to gently cup Javert’s face. “I would never wish to hurt you back; you don’t deserve that. I hold no grudge against you.” 



Javert felt himself trembling. “Then tell me what to do,” he hissed. “Tell me how I can help lessen your anguish.” Javert stopped himself before he could finish his thought:

 You deserve to be helped too. 




A strange look came across Valjean’s face, as if taken off-guard by what Javert said. “The fact that you even consider this…the fact that you even want to help me is enough to lift my spirits,” Valjean said quietly, his voice choking. 




Our existences have both been cold and devoid of care,

 thought Javert.



 Finding himself unable to form words, he simply nodded at Valjean. He leaned forward to meet the older man’s lips in a gentle kiss. Valjean trembled against him, his hands moving to rest against Javert’s chest. Kissing down to Valjean’s neck, he felt the man taking hitching breaths. Javert paused, realizing that Valjean was softly crying. He stopped with his ministrations, wrapping his arms around him and burying his face in his neck. 



As Valjean’s tears fell into his hair, Javert felt the urge to squeeze him as tightly as he could. So he did as much, pulling the broad chest to his. “I never once saw you cry in Toulon. Do I cause you more pain than the lash?” he murmured into his neck. 



Valjean sniffed, then kissed the top of Javert’s head. “Oh, Javert. I’m not crying from pain, or from bitterness. It’s strange. It’s almost a feeling of euphoria. To finally have someone to speak to who knows my past; who I don’t have to keep secrets from.” He paused, eyeing Javert almost warily. “To have…perhaps…a friend.” 



Javert blinked. 

A friend

. He didn’t think he had ever had anyone in his life he could truly call a friend. But he supposed that was what Valjean was. He certainly couldn’t be considered an enemy after the intimacy they shared. “What a strange friendship,” murmured Javert. “I hardly understand it. But it seems that our lives can’t stop from intersecting.” 



Valjean hummed in agreement. The two lay together for a while longer, until Javert hesitantly pulled away. He sighed, gently carding his fingers through Valjean’s hair. “I need to go to the station.” 



Valjean nodded, gazing at Javert. “On your own?” 



“Yes,” Javert replied. Seeing a look of concern come over Valjean’s face, he quickly added, “We shall convene together later.” 



This made Valjean smile, and with that, Javert got out of bed and got himself ready. 



He was unsure of what he would walk into when he returned to the station. But, Javert was pleasantly surprised that his men were not completely incompetent and had managed to find the four remaining men during the night shift. This time, when Javert was asked to identify the men, they were brought in individually before the inspector, held by the strong arms of the guards and gagged so they couldn’t cry out insults. They would be held in the cell, until their trial which would take place in a couple days. Javert felt some sense of relief that these dangerous men were behind bars, never to hurt another person again. But, he was still wracked with nervousness about the upcoming trial, afraid something would go horribly wrong.



His anxiety about the trial and his meeting with Chabouillet, along with thoughts about Valjean (who seemed to occupy his mind too much these days), made it difficult for Javert to concentrate on his work that day. The seemingly unending stack of reports that accumulated during his absence overwhelmed him. At one point, Javert found himself reading the same sentence over and over. He sighed, standing up and deciding to exit his office to check in with his officers. 



The room was empty but for Aurand hunched over his desk. 



“Constable, anything to report?” asked Javert, crossing his arms. 



Aurand jumped, seemingly just now noticing Javert’s presence. “I’ve only gotten a report of a theft, sir. Nothing else.” 



Javert nodded. “Have you sent any officers back to the boy’s house? Perhaps he is now willing to talk and corroborate my identification,” he implored, turning away from Aurand’s gaze. 



“I sent over an officer this morning. The boy is either unwilling or unable to talk about the attack. Should we keep sending officers to the home, or force the boy to come in?” asked Aurand.



Javert shook his head forcefully. “No. If he doesn’t wish to speak, then we shall not force him.” He shuddered at the thought of forcing the boy to see his attackers again. It had been bad enough for him, as a man, to have to identify them. 



“Understood, sir,” replied Aurand. He paused, eyeing Javert. “Inspector, sir, I just want to ask. Are you alright after yesterday? They shall pay for their insolence.” 



Javert scowled. “Do you pity me, Constable? Do you think less of me?”



“No, sir,” Aurand said quickly. “I was just concerned for you, Inspector.” 



“Don’t be,” hissed Javert, turning on his heel and storming into his office. He collapsed into his chair, burying his head in his hands. He couldn’t tolerate this. Aurand seemed nervous in his presence, not because of his level of fear he previously had for Javert, but because he felt sorry for him. He probably no longer held any fear or respect for the inspector, especially after what he heard the attackers say. If his constables didn’t respect him, then neither would any of the other officers. Javert knew what needed to be done; he would plead his case with Chabouillet to move him to a different post. 



Javert somehow managed to pull himself together to finish his work that day. After making a stop at his apartment to gather some things, he made his way to Valjean’s home almost without thinking about it. When Valjean opened the door for him, Javert descended upon him hungrily, roughly pulling him in for a kiss. Valjean gasped and stumbled backward, and Javert clumsily stumbled after him, grabbing him by his hair to force their mouths together. 



Valjean pulled away so he could catch a breath. “Javert! Slow down,” he murmured. When Javert tried to pull them back together, Valjean turned away. “Javert!” he hissed. “Sister Simplice is in the next room. You need to stop.” 



This seemed to snap Javert out of whatever reverie he was in. He backed away, a blush creeping over his face. “I’ve been thinking about you all day,” he said quietly, looking down. 



A gentle smile came over Valjean’s face, his cheeks flushing. “You were on my mind too,” he murmured, placing his hands on Javert’s chest. “We can continue this after supper, if you wish.” 



Javert nodded in agreement, sheepishly walking past Valjean to put the second set of clothes he brought into the bedroom. He wasn’t sure what had come over him; perhaps the knowledge that he would probably soon be moving to a different post had made him want to cling to the other man.

 Before we must part I want to be had by him completely

, Javert thought, immediately blushing as the idea entered his head. 



Javert was broken out of his lust-filled thoughts by Valjean calling out to him that supper was ready. With a flush still on his face, he exited the room and joined Valjean at the table. 



“They caught the other men,” Javert blurted abruptly, before either man could take a bite from their supper. 



“I’m glad these scoundrels have been apprehended,” replied Valjean. He placed a hand gently on Javert’s. “Did you identify them?”



“Yes,” Javert replied. “The officers had enough sense to bring them to me individually and gag their disgusting mouths. Unfortunately, I don’t think the boy is willing to identify them, or testify at a trial.” 



“After seeing two of them myself, I can’t blame the boy for being scared,” said Valjean. He paused, squeezing Javert’s hand. “They are frightening men. You have no reason to be ashamed.” 



Javert sighed, staring into his bowl. “It’s hard not to be ashamed. My officers no longer respect me. They pity me. Perhaps they even laugh at me.” He looked back up at Valjean, feeling his heart flutter. “That is why I am going to ask Chabouillet for a transfer tomorrow.” 



The look that Valjean gave him cut Javert to his core. It was a look of utter sorrow, as if Javert’s words had sliced him like a knife. 



Valjean sniffed, removing his hand from Javert’s and casting his eyes down. “I understand. You know what is best for you and your career.” 



“I will write you, I could even visit. It’s only a couple days' journey,” Javert blurted before he could even think. 



“You would?” asked Valjean softly. 



Javert simply nodded, biting his lip nervously. 



The air grew tense around them as the men ate their meals in a hurry. There was so much Javert could say, but he simply couldn’t bring himself to it. Among his many thoughts was the irrational idea to ask Valjean to simply leave and come with him. But Javert knew the responsibility Valjean felt for his employees and for Montreuil as a whole. He couldn’t imagine that Valjean would ever abandon them. 



After they finished eating, Valjean stared at Javert pensively for a moment. Right as he opened his mouth to speak, the doorbell rang. “Excuse me,” Valjean said, quickly rising to his feet. 



Though he wasn’t sure if it was the best idea, Javert rose too, and made his way to Valjean’s bedroom. 



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



The person at Valjean’s door was a young man he had seen out on the streets before. He assured the man he would give him some coin and food. When he passed through the dining room to go into the kitchen, he was confused to see that Javert had left his place at the table. After giving the man money and bread and sending him on his way, Valjean checked the sitting room for Javert. Not seeing any sign of him, he went to his bedroom. 



After opening the door, the sight before him made Valjean gasp. Javert laid sprawled out on the bed in his nightshirt, which he had hitched up his bare thighs. His hair was loose, fanned out underneath him. Noticing Valjean, Javert peered up at him, his eyelashes fluttering delicately. As if in a trance, Valjean slowly walked toward the bed, and carefully sat at the foot, almost as if any quick movements would scare Javert away. Hesitantly, he reached out his hand, placing it on one of Javert’s bare feet. Valjean could feel Javert’s toes curl in response. 



“May we continue what we began before supper?” asked Javert quietly, a blush rising from his neck to his cheeks. 



Valjean felt stricken dumb; his jaw dropped, nodding at Javert. 



Javert sat up, smirking slightly. Cradling Valjean’s face, he pulled him in for a deep kiss. It was a messy thing, all tongues and saliva and teeth. Javert had risen to his knees so that he hovered slightly over Valjean, gripping his hair and pushing his tongue into the other man’s mouth. Valjean’s hands began to wander, running from Javert’s chest down to his waist. When he gave one of Javert’s hips a squeeze, Javert gasped in response. Valjean took the opportunity to nibble on Javert’s plump lower lip causing Javert to moan quietly. 



“You should undress,” Javert said huskily, as the two parted to catch their breaths. 



Valjean nodded and obeyed, divesting himself of his clothes as quickly as possible. Javert pulled off his nightshirt as well, and the two sat naked before each other on the bed. 



“Here. Come here,” murmured Valjean, his hands returning to Javert’s thin waist. He gently guided Javert to sit on his lap, Javert hissing as the men’s arousals met. Valjean eagerly kissed and nibbled on Javert’s neck as Javert panted and moaned above him. Valjean soaked in every sound Javert made, the gasps and moans going directly to his cock. Wanting to hear more, he moved his mouth down to his nipple, taking it into his mouth and suckling it. The sound Javert made couldn’t be described as anything besides a mewl; he writhed violently in Valjean’s lap. 



“Please, Valjean,” panted Javert. He ground his hips eagerly, causing their erections to rub each other. “Want you.” 



Valjean moaned, moving to Javert’s other nipple, biting and suckling as he simultaneously put his hand around Javert’s length. He could feel that Javert was leaking already, and Valjean moved a finger to touch the bead of fluid around the head. Javert threw his head back and whined, thrusting himself into Valjean’s hand. 



“Wait,” Javert murmured. 



Removing his hand, Valjean looked at him questioningly. 



Javert’s face was flushed and his eyes were dilated. “I feel already as if I could spend. I don’t want to yet. I want…” He trailed off, before cupping Valjean’s erection. “I want it. I want it inside. Please.” 



“Oh,” Valjean gasped breathily. The thought of entering Javert was arousing, but a sense of fear outweighed his lust. “Will…will that not hurt you? I could never hurt you, Javert.” 



Javert’s eyelashes fluttered as he looked down. “If it’s done properly, it will not hurt. It can be pleasurable. So I’ve heard,” he quickly finished, flushing. 



Valjean recalled hearing consensual couplings of men in prison. He could think of several occasions when the man that was penetrated sounded as if he was in pure ecstasy. Valjean cupped Javert’s face. “I want to please you. Tell me what to do, and I will do it.” 



A pleased look came over Javert’s face. He leaned into Valjean’s neck, kissing and softly nibbling. “We need oil to ease the way,” he murmured into his neck. “Then, you can, ah-” Javert broke off with a choked groan; it seemed that merely saying the obscene things they were to do stupefied Javert. He moved himself further up in Valjean’s lap, so that Valjean’s cock sat at the juncture between his ass and thigh. “You will prepare me with your fingers, so that I’m ready to be split open on this fat cock,” Javert whispered into Valjean’s ear. 



Valjean gasped, unable to stop himself from thrusting his hips up. 

My God

, he thought. 

Those filthy words

. He stared dumbfounded at the other man, frozen with unbridled lust.



“Do you want it, Valjean?” asked Javert, continuing to nibble on his neck. 



Valjean could barely manage to choke out his affirmation. 



“Tell me,” Javert said, peering at Valjean through those beautiful eyelashes again. He ground his ass down onto Valjean’s cock, his own cock rubbing against Valjean’s belly. 



Valjean could hardly think, the pleasure overwhelming him. “Yes, I want it,” he panted. “I want to be inside you.” He flushed as soon as the words came out of his mouth. But Lord in heaven did he want this, and Javert practically beamed at him. 



“Well then, you need to fetch some oil,” Javert said, a faint smile on his face, reluctantly removing himself from Valjean’s lap to lay back on the bed. 



Valjean scrambled off the bed, returning in a hurry with some lamp oil. Javert had turned onto his belly, and he arched his neck, watching as Valjean sat back down. 



For a moment, all Valjean could do was look nervously at the other man, his eyes roaming from his shoulders down to his ass. He realized he was trembling, perhaps with both anticipation and fear. Seeing Javert’s expectant look, Valjean leaned forward to gently kiss him. 



When they broke apart, Javert grabbed his chin. “You have no reason to be nervous. I know you will not hurt me. I will spread myself open. You will dip your finger in the oil and push it gently in.” 



Valjean nodded, thankful for the other man’s guidance. He took a breath, greased his fingers with the oil, and watched as Javert arched his back and spread his buttocks apart, just as he had the previous day. The small hole quivered, as if anticipating the penetration. Valjean’s erection, which had flagged in his nervousness, stiffened at the sight. 



“You must tell me if there is any pain,” Valjean said. 



“Yes,” replied Javert, his voice tinged with impatience. “Now please get on with it.” 



Valjean almost wanted to laugh, as even waiting to be penetrated by another man, Javert was still his usual demanding self. So, Valjean obeyed, gently probing his slicked finger inside the tight ring. 



Javert hissed, and Valjean almost immediately wanted to withdraw. “Javert?” he implored gently. 



“I’m not in pain. It’s just a strange feeling,” said Javert, shifting his hips around. “Perhaps use more oil and add your second finger.” 



Valjean withdrew his finger, and slicked them again thoroughly. Placing a gentle kiss on the small of Javert’s back, he carefully inserted two fingers into the waiting pink hole. 

My God, it’s so tight

, thought Valjean. 

How will I ever fit? 




Javert gasped loudly. “Yes, that’s good. You must move your fingers to loosen me up,” he whined. 



Valjean did as he was told, scissoring his fingers. Feeling the tight walls cling around the digits, his cock twitched. He couldn’t imagine how it would feel for his length to be enveloped in that tight heat. As Javert gradually opened for him, he probed his fingers in further. Javert moaned loudly as Valjean brushed at a certain spot. Precum dribbled from Javert’s cock onto the bed.



“There, Valjean. Oh God, that feels heavenly,” sighed Javert. “I’m ready for a third finger.” 



Javert’s hole easily sucked in his third finger, and Javert keened as Valjean could more easily thrust his thick fingers inside. The noises Javert made spurred Valjean to push them deeper, to once again find that spot that brought Javert pleasure. Valjean knew the spot was found when Javert cried out, his hips thrusting into the bed to get friction on his cock. 



 
“Valjean, please. I need your cock in me now. Your fingers aren’t enough!” Javert cried out, writhing violently. 



“Shh. Easy now,” said Valjean quietly, using his other hand to soothingly stroke the small of Javert’s back as if the man was a startled horse. “God in heaven, you’re still so tight. Let me put in a fourth,” Valjean murmured, his face burning with both desire and embarrassment. 



Javert whined when Valjean’s fingers withdrew, and his hole contracted as if needing something back in it. Valjean felt his cock dribble precum at the sight. Shaking with arousal, he re-slicked his fingers, and gently inserted them into the waiting opening. As he thrust into the tight channel, a loud, whining keen erupted from Javert. If Javert hadn’t been out of his mind with lust, Valjean knew he would be mortified that he made such a sound. When Valjean spread his fingers, Javert gasped out his name, more slick dribbling underneath him. Valjean wondered absentmindedly if Javert would be able to spend from just his fingers alone. However, this was not what Javert desired, and for his part, Valjean’s cock ached to be inside him. 



“Are you ready?” asked Valjean breathily, his fingers nudging into Javert’s prostate. 



“Yes, oh God, yes,” gasped Javert. 



Valjean could feel Javert’s hole spasming as he carefully withdrew his fingers. Though Javert’s legs trembled, he managed to turn himself around, staring at Valjean intently. He then dipped his fingers in the oil, and grasped Valjean’s throbbing length in one swift movement. Valjean cried out at the touch, startling himself at the volume. Embarrassed, he covered his mouth with his arm to muffle his sounds. 



“None of that,” Javert murmured, batting at Valjean’s arm. “Want to hear you.” 



“Javert,” Valjean gasped, as Javert’s finger stroked down the underside of his cock. “You need to…I’m going to…”



Javert smiled, removing his hand. “I want to ride you,” he murmured. 



“God!” cried out Valjean. With trembling hands, he reached for Javert’s waist. Using his strength, he lifted the man so that he hovered over his cock. 



“Lower me onto it,” Javert said, resting his arms on Valjean’s shoulders. “Carefully now.” 



Valjean nodded, slowly, slowly lowering Javert. The initial breach of the head into Javert’s entrance caused both of the men to gasp and moan. Valjean had to resist the urge to immediately thrust up into that wet, tight, heat. 



“Keep going,” Javert said through gritted teeth. As Valjean continued to lower him, he felt Javert’s nails dig into his shoulders. 



“Are you in pain?” asked Valjean. “Tell me, Javert.” Though he wanted nothing more than to envelope his length inside Javert, he refused to hurt him. He remembered how much Javert had suffered at the hands of those men, and Valjean would rather die than to cause Javert that pain again. 



“No,” sighed Javert. “Discomfort perhaps, but not pain. My God, your cock is thick. Lower me all the way, then give me a moment to adjust.” 



With that, Valjean drew in a shaky breath, and finally lowered Javert all the way. Javert’s hole spasmed and contracted around him; the squeeze was deliciously tight. “God, Javert,” he gasped. 



Javert panted above him, his eyes fluttering as he adjusted to the fullness. “Does it feel good?” he murmured, leaning over to kiss Valjean’s cheek. 



“Incredibly so,” Valjean replied honestly. “Javert…you’re so beautiful. You’re doing so well.” 



Javert smiled, this time moving to sloppily kiss Valjean on the lips. When he broke away, he began moving, his hole squeezing as he lifted himself up, then slammed back down on Valjean’s length. The feel of that velvety heat was unlike any pleasure Valjean had ever known. He couldn’t refrain from thrusting up into Javert, a strangled sound leaving his throat. 



As Javert found a rhythm, he began babbling. “God, Valjean. You’re so big. You feel so good inside me.” He speared himself further onto Valjean’s cock, and Valjean gasped at the way Javert’s walls practically sucked him inside. 



“Need it deeper,” Javert cried out. His hips moved frantically, his cock dribbling precum onto Valjean’s stomach. “Want it deep inside me. Want your seed to flood my belly.” 



“Javert!” Valjean cried out at those words. He thrusted up into Javert in earnest, gripping the man’s hips so tightly that he would surely leave bruises. At a particularly harsh thrust that nudged against his prostate, Javert wailed. 



“There, right there,” he whimpered. His fingers scrabbled, eventually finding their way into Valjean’s hair. “Take me, Valjean.” 



Almost without thinking, Valjean pulled Javert off his cock and laid him on the bed. Javert gasped, spreading his legs open to reveal his slick hole. Valjean gently squeezed Javert’s pale inner thighs, before carefully pushing his fat cockhead back inside. 



“Yes,” Javert hissed. He reached up to cup Valjean’s face, pulling him down for a kiss. When he pulled away, he looked at Valjean with glazed over eyes. “I have dreams about 24601 saying he will take me hard with his big cock,” he murmured. “I know you’re not that same man anymore, but please Valjean, I need it hard.” 



“Oh,” Valjean gasped, the confession shocking him. Though he didn’t like to think of prison, there was something arousing about Javert dreaming of him when he was a big, brutish prisoner. So Valjean pushed his length fully inside, taking one moment to appreciate the sight of the small hole adjusting to take him. Then, he began thrusting in earnest. The bed shook with the strength of the thrusts, and Valjean could hear the lewd sound of his balls slapping against Javert’s ass. 



Javert mewled, gripping tightly onto Valjean’s back. His eyes rolled back and mouth dropped open; he looked as if he was in pure bliss as Valjean hit his prostate over and over. Valjean reached for Javert’s weeping cock, and with only a few tugs, he released his seed on Valjean’s belly with a cry. As he did, his hole tightened around Valjean, bringing him close to the edge as well.



Javert closed his eyes, panting and gasping as he rode the aftershocks of his orgasm. “Oh, God. Come for me, Valjean. Fill me up with your seed,” he whined. 



Valjean moaned as he rocked into Javert, his lips grazing the other man’s jaw as he felt his orgasm approaching. Panting, his cock twitched inside Javert’s sweet little hole, and though Javert was quite spent, he cried out as Valjean’s massive length made contact with his prostate once more. The sound Javert made pushed Valjean over the edge, and he felt his cock release his seed deep inside Javert. After a moment, he withdrew from him, flushing at the loud squelching sound and the sight of his seed spilling out of Javert’s soaked entrance. 



Valjean collapsed on top of Javert, covering his face with kisses. “Thank you, Javert. You’re so good, you’re so perfect,” he babbled. 



“I should be thanking you,” Javert murmured, brushing his fingers through Valjean’s hair. “I’ve literally been dreaming of this.” 



“I hope I lived up to your dreams,” Valjean said teasingly. 



“It was better,” murmured Javert, pulling Valjean down for another kiss. He nibbled on Valjean’s lower lip for a moment before he pulled away and eyed him thoughtfully. “In my dreams, you hated me. But knowing you do actually care for me…” Javert trailed off. 



“I do care for you. So much,” Valjean said, his voice slightly choked. “This is selfish of me, but the thought of you leaving pains me deeply.” 



Javert nodded, cupping Valjean’s face. “It pains me too,” he whispered. “I may be foolish for even suggesting this. Would you consider coming with me wherever I may go?” 



Valjean’s heart fluttered, his eyes welling with tears. He wanted that more than anything he had ever wanted in his whole life. Though he knew he had helped Montreuil immensely, he had never wanted to be mayor. He was pressured into it due to the success of the bead factory. Furthermore, even before these past couple weeks, Valjean had toyed with the idea of transferring the ownership of the factory so that he would be free to flee if needed. 



Gazing down at Javert, Valjean smiled, allowing a couple tears to escape. “Yes, Javert. I will go with you.” 
