Title: Of the Rapture that Impels
Work ID: 49818211
Author: M_Moonshade
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Vampire!Valjean AU, and how that intersects with JVJ being one of the most devout people in France, Cosette's Wedding, canon-typical wedding-related Depression, but with canon-atypical emotional support Javert standing by to help, Established Relationship, Frottage
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Summary:
“This says your daughter is getting married in a church.”
Valjean simply looks at him, waiting for the relevant information to be disclosed.
“A church," Javert repeats, as if that will impress its significance to the vampire.
(AKA “How to care for your depressed Vampire,” by Former Inspector “yeah I have my own mental health under control, why do you ask?” Javert)

Work text:

It is not  technically a lie.

Valjean does, in fact, look over the proof copy of the wedding announcement and its accompanying invitations. It may not be a particularly  long  or  detailed look, but look he does, until he is too obviously miserable to keep his eyes on the papers any longer. Fortunately, Javert is far more exacting in his examinations. All the spelling is checked and double-checked, the placement of the letters is measured (it would irritate him for the thing to be spoiled by being off-center), and all the details are cross-referenced for accuracy. It is only when he finds no other errors that he presents his report.

“Jean.” 

Valjean is slumped in his chair, his elbows braced against his knees. He turns his head when Javert speaks, but that motion seems to cost him far too much effort.

“Is the announcement not to your liking, Javert?” 

“Technically it is acceptable. But Jean.” He steels himself.  He would ask how Valjean could have missed such a key detail, but just by looking at him, the answer to that is obvious. “This says your daughter is getting married in a church.”

Valjean simply looks at him, waiting for the relevant information to be disclosed.

“A  church,” Javert repeats, as if that will impress its significance to the vampire.

“Yes?”

Of course this isn't a surprise to him.

Damn the man and his penchant for martyrdom. “I can’t imagine you excusing yourself from the event.”

“I don’t intend to.”

“Jean.” He knows by now that looming over him to deliver a lecture won’t sway him, so Javert crouches before him and takes Valjean’s hands in his own. “Jean, I don’t know how many weddings you’ve attended–” Javert himself has been a guest to none, though he’s been assigned as loaned security for certain high-profile events. “But they are long, tedious affairs. As the father of the bride, you’ll be expected to remain near the front, close to the boy’s family for its entirety. There won’t be any opportunity to gripe about the crowd and stand outside the door until it’s over.”

Javert is more than happy to glower and scowl during their weekly Mass until Valjean ushers him from the building. He’s well aware that Valjean would push himself to stay far longer if left to his own devices, and he would be the worse off for it. 

(A few of their fellow parishioners have commented on their shared farce, but only to praise Valjean’s endless patience for shepherding such an obviously unwilling soul back to the House of God every Sunday. Javert grumbles for their benefit, but secretly he’s pleased to see Valjean’s efforts at piety recognized.) 

“Surely there’s someplace else they can hold the ceremony.”

“This is important to Cosette,” Valjean says gently.

“You can feign sickness.  I can feign sickness!” He’s starting to sound a little frantic and he knows it.

Valjean smoothes the hair from Javert’s eyes and lets his hand linger there against his cheek. “I won’t miss Cosette’s wedding.”

“Why not?” Javert demands. “On holy ground, within spitting distance of the altar– you’ll be half-delirious before she walks down the aisle. Will you even remember it?” 

“She’ll remember. That is what matters.” He hesitates. "Will you help me?" 

As if it was ever in question.

“Of course I will, you stubborn martyr,” Javert mutters, but turns his face to kiss Valjean’s palm.

For hours each day, Valjean plays the supportive father the way he once played the dutiful mayor-- that is to say, exaggerating those desired parts of himself at the expense of all others, with no regard for what it costs him after. Back then Javert didn’t understand the disguise for what it was; now it is painful to watch. Valjean sits with Cosette and a master carpenter as they go over designs for her  armoire de mariage , and then he tours every seller of lace and linen in the city in search of all the napkins and linens and who-knows-what-else that are meant to fill it. Javert doesn’t know much of the procedure of a trousseau, but he understands that most young women gather linens like textile-minded magpies starting from childhood, and here they are trying to collect all the pieces in a matter of weeks. It would be maddening for anyone– but all the while he remains affectionate and encouraging, as though nothing in the world mattered more than his daughter’s happiness.

Rarely does Valjean allow his smile to fade or his spine to bend; when Cosette notices, he insists he is merely overwhelmed with all the preparations there are to be had. The first few times Javert had invented excuses for them to leave, but Valjean had adamantly refused. Now Javert resigns himself to simply watch the life and will trickle out of him a minute at a time. Valjean shows no other outward sign of distress until he’s retreated back to his little cottage. The moment the door shuts behind him, he transforms. His shoulders curl in, his head bows to bury his face in his hands, his knees tremble-- they would give out entirely if Javert wasn’t there to ease him to his chair. The tears he’s held back these past hours escape all at once, and he shudders and shakes with those captive sobs. 

Javert lets those first paroxysms of grief run their course before he steps in closer. This time he managed to get Valjean’s gloves off him at the door, and his hat. His scarf hangs limp about his neck, soaked with tears instead of snowfall, and Javert unwinds it from around him and drapes it by the stove to dry. His coat is unbuttoned where he sits, before Javert eases him to his feet and slides it from his shoulders. This close, it’s easy to press his lips to the corner of Valjean’s jaw. He hangs the coat on the hook beside his own and then returns to unfasten the buttons of Valjean’s waistcoat-- slowly enough to qualify as sensual, perhaps, and punctuated by more nipping kisses. 

Sex was a remarkably effective distraction when their association began. Valjean was no blushing virgin even then, but he'd been celibate for long enough that Javert's attentions had diverted all thoughts to the matter at hand (or mouth, or prick). It seems, however, that overuse has robbed that strategy of its power.

Lately it has taken more and more effort to drag Valjean out of his melancholy. 

Today when Javert trails kisses down his neck, he doesn't respond at all.

Javert redoubles his efforts-- teases with little flicks of his tongue, draws skin between his teeth to gently suck-- but still there's nothing. No little sounds, no pleased shivers, no gradual loosening of the tension still coiled beneath those muscles. Confounded, he draws back to identify what he's doing wrong. 

Valjean looks pained. "I'm sorry," he says, as if he has committed some mortal sin. "Forgive me, Javert."

Javert eyes him with more scrutiny. Exhaustion drags at Valjean's every feature, even as he visibly tries to rally himself. In his eyes isn't desire, not even the guttering spark of it. Only resignation.

The wrongness of it curdles in Javert's gut. It shouldn't be this way. He's meant to be helping Valjean feel better, not-- not making even more demands of him.

"Another time, perhaps," he says stiffly.

"Another time," Valjean echoes back, rote and mechanical-- not something he believes, but a formality as necessary and painful as the wedding preparations. 

Javert retreats. In the past this has always worked, and so he didn't think to make a secondary plan. He ought to apologize, but already he knows that the moment he admits to wrongdoing he will be forgiven out of hand, and nothing will be solved, and the interaction will leave Valjean that much more exhausted. He doesn’t have a great many tools at his command for such situations, and physical intimacy has always been his most effective. He has no clue what to do now that it’s failed him. Instead silence stretches between them, growing ever more awkward the longer it gets. 

When the silence grows outright painful, Javert makes an excuse to escape into the garden, but that is no more fruitful. It's January, for God's sake.  He would do some work in the garden as that always seems to please Valjean, but there’s nothing left to be done: the wood has already been stacked impeccably against the wall, the path to the main house has been cleared of snow, and being out here accomplishes nothing except to make himself cold. 

When he finally gives in and returns to the cottage, the air isn’t as warm as it should be: Valjean has allowed the fire to die down to nearly nothing. His lips move as he watches Javert remove his hat and gloves, but he merely worries soundlessly at the words. 

Javert nods at the stove and busies himself adding more wood to the fire. “I don’t know if you can actually freeze to death, or if you would simply freeze solid like a pond frog. I for one don’t intend to find out.” 

Valjean makes a strangled sound, followed by a hoarse, “Forgive me.”

“It’s only a bit of fire,” Javert says. 

“I should have--”

Javert waits a beat for him to finish the thought. When it doesn’t come, he replies: “You forgive everyone else without a thought, and yourself not at all. Imagine if you were even a fraction as generous with yourself as you are to the rest of the world.” 

That was meant to be comforting and supportive, damn it all. It was intended to reassure him that no harm was done and all is well. Instead, Valjean looks stricken. 

Javert would take a vow of silence if he thought he could get away with it. His damned tongue is good for nothing but ordering groceries and worshiping Valjean’s cock, and apparently it isn’t even good for that anymore. Damn it all.

Damn it all!

He continues shoving wood into the stove, all too aware of the silence gathering around him.

It takes several minutes before Valjean works himself up to speaking again. 

“It isn’t necessary for you to stay here.” The words are leaden, and they strike Javert like a cudgel to the back of the skull. He freezes, stunned. “If you would be better served elsewhere--”

Javert turns to face him. “Are you throwing me out?” He’s too horrified to school his expression, and he knows he must look horrifying, like something savage and feral--

“No,” Valjean says, softer, placating. “No, Javert. You must know, I would never.” 

Of course not. He’s too kind for that. He would open his home to a starved tiger, and let it chew the limbs off him to satisfy itself.

“Do you want to be rid of me, then?” This time, at least, he succeeds in controlling his face and tone. 

“Never,” Valjean swears. His eyes are underscored with exhaustion and welling with tears. “But I cannot-- Javert, you must understand-- I can’t give you what you deserve.”

“I should hope not." Javert is all too aware of what he deserves. He has pored over books of the law to find those crimes that match his own and compiled the typical sentences for them-- far longer than he has left on this earth. He knows he'll never see judgement for a single one of his wrongdoings, but he can still feel the weight of them like a millstone around his neck, enormous and heavy enough to drag him to the bottom of the Seine. He would deserve that fate. He does not-- could never-- deserve Jean Valjean. And yet here they are. “You’ve tossed aside several chances already to be an arbiter of God’s justice, and I see no reason you should change your course now. Being a dispenser of mercy suits you far better in my opinion.”

“You misunderstand me.” Valjean attempts to collect himself, but every breath is underscored by that same marrow-deep exhaustion Javert saw in him before. Javert sets aside that other train of thought and focuses on the evidence before him. His own hysterics are of no use to Valjean.

“Is this about earlier?” he asks, and Valjean gives him that miniscule shift of expression to indicate he’s correct. “I acknowledge that I was perhaps overzealous in my attentions--”

“You weren’t,” Valjean says, and the rush of it would almost be reassuring, if not for the guilt and grief dragging in its wake. “But I-- Javert, you deserve to have those attentions reciprocated. You deserve pleasure. You deserve ecstasy. But I-- I can’t give that to you now. I can’t even--”

Javert considers him. “And your answer to this is that I ought to seek it out elsewhere.” 

Valjean’s shoulders sag in defeated assent. “If I can’t--”

“Then we won’t,” Javert says firmly. “Sex holds little interest to me if you aren’t enjoying yourself.”

“But you--”

“I preferred your company over anyone else’s before all of that began, and I continue to prefer it now.” For all that Valjean’s gaze drifts away, Javert manages to catch his eyes. “Twice now I’ve tried to resign myself from your company, and you’ve refused to let me go. It’s about time the roles are reversed.” He steps closer, careful not to impose an unwelcome touch. “You said you don’t want to be rid of me. What do you want, then?” 

Valjean crumbles further. “To be of use. To be even capable of being useful to-- to you, and to Cosette.” 

A sympathetic ache squeezes Javert’s heart. “Cosette has been quick to ask for assistance as she needs it. She’ll be best served if you are well enough to provide it. And I--” He lays his hand on the back of Valjean’s chair, bare inches from the shoulder he would rather be pressing. “I want to take care of you, Jean, if you’ll allow it. But I’m hardly skilled in such matters. I need your instruction.”

Valjean’s head bows. “I don’t know if I can give it.”

“Your patience, then.” His hand tenses on the chair back. “Are you adverse to any touch, or merely to--” 

It occurs to Javert that asking these sorts of questions will be significantly harder if he can’t put half of them into words. 

Before he can articulate the words, Valjean leans his head against Javert’s arm in answer.

I'm having A Time, so I thought let's post a chapter.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


The truth is that Javert isn’t entirely unfamiliar with caring for Valjean in such a state. There is no training manual or book of code to memorize, but the past year has given him enough flexibility of thought to take what pieces he’s learned and combine them effectively. 

He’s discovered that while in distress Valjean will avoid sleep if he isn’t prompted. Even then, he’ll resist outright unless he's given other reason-- and so Javert insists on his company in bed, on the grounds that he, Javert, sleeps better when Valjean is in his arms. (It isn’t untrue.)

Valjean puts off feeding-- Javert suspects it is either martyrdom or a quiet attempt at circumventing any unproductive excitement-- and so Javert insists on regular almsgiving, and steers their route toward those individuals who have agreed to one of Valjean’s ‘mutually beneficial arrangements’. His complexion is a little less ashen afterward, his steps a little bit lighter; he still moves like a man on his way to the gallows, but at least there’s no doubt whether he’ll make it all the way there. 

He’s learning the points when Valjean’s lamentations begin to coil into anxious spirals, when to redirect those thoughts and when to let them run their course before he refutes them, that he might uncover some more insidious fear at their center.

He coaxes Valjean to help him bring a plush chaise from the main house to their garden cottage-- the tiny space becomes that much more cramped, but it’s worth it for the opportunity to read with Valjean’s head on his lap. Sometimes he merely lays there as if sleeping, but sometimes he twines their fingers together and nuzzles closer into Javert’s thigh, and Javert thinks he may have done it right.

“A cchurch, Monsieur,” Javert mutters, foregoing Valjean’s name because they are on the streets of Paris. “She had to get married in a church.”

“We’ve been over this.” On any other night, his tone might have been gently chiding. Tonight-- on the eve of the wedding-- he sounds as exhausted as he looks. He barely manages to trudge, despite Javert pulling on his arm like a dog straining at its leash.

Valjean will not set foot in a place of worship in this state-- Javert won't allow it. He isn't sure of the mechanisms behind it, but he’s noticed that being in the presence of holy symbols burns through Valjean’s reserves of blood and energy at an alarming speed. Javert had hoped to counteract its effects by gorging Valjean on several donors the night before. He’d thought accounted for enough time to reach several of Valjean’s contacts before they’re lost to sleep, but he failed to anticipate  just how slowly the damned man is moving. It was a miscalculation. He should have left earlier-- as soon as Cosette released them from dinner-- but of course Valjean had to linger at her side as if at her deathbed. 

"Yes, we've been over this!" Javert snaps. "It's been too long since you've properly eaten. If you try to sit through that ceremony unfed, you'll collapse before they finish saying their vows."

"I've endured worse."

Yes, he has.

Nearly twenty years in the bagne--

More months aboard the  Orion --

Critical exhaustion as he stood on constant guard over his daughter for weeks--

 Literal torture --

It comes to Javert in nightmares sometimes-- more often now, when Valjean goes so long without moving that it feels like he might never rise again. Too many nights he jerks awake already pulling Valjean closer in his arms, just to hear a murmur, a sigh, any proof that he isn't gone. There are moments when the fear is so intense it turns to anger, when he wants to grab Valjean by the shoulders and shake sense into him, to shout at him--  don't do this to me-- don't force me to watch you suffer-- 

But that was what Valjean had asked of him. And Javert had known it, understood it, and agreed all the same. 

Directing his frustration at Valjean is pointless-- worse, it is unjust.

He forces himself to slow, and the dragging on Valjean’s arm loses its tension as Valjean eases into his own pace. 

"I know tomorrow will be painful for you.” Javert selects his words carefully. “I know this has all been an ordeal, and the worst of it is coming still. It isn’t my intention to make this harder on you.” 

“You haven’t.” Valjean’s free hand rises to press Javert’s arm.

“If you would prefer me to be-- more delicate--”

“I prefer you as you are.” The smile that touches Valjean’s lips is so faint that it might have been a trick of the light, but Javert can hear its echo in his voice. “I’ve found the people who love me tend to be very adamant in their affections.” 

Javert's face heats. “How else would we persuade you to accept them?” 

He would kiss him now, if he could. It’s getting dark-- no one will see them, and anyone who does and cares to remark upon it can answer to Javert. 

But they have places to be tonight, and keeping Valjean well supercedes all else.

Wedding bells are far too loud.

Javert has never held particular fondness for them, but he finds himself glaring in the direction of the hateful things every time a particularly deafening peal sends a shudder through Valjean’s frame. Javert shifts in the pew until all of his side is pressed to Valjean’s, from shoulder to hip to knee. That point of contact, and the handkerchief currently clutched in Valjean's hand, are all the comfort he can provide.

By all means, he shouldn’t even be allowed to sit here beside him in this place of honor, but Cosette had insisted that as her father’s closest friend– and as the one who’d convinced him to approve of the courtship in the first place– he ought to be given that privilege. 

Privately Javert suspects that old Gillenormand had been too worn down from other arguments to put up a proper fight; a retired police inspector in an improper seat was at least respectable, unlike the small band of covert revolutionaries on the guest list. 

There’s a part of him that wants to keep an eye on them in anticipation of criminal activity– but that would be pointless. He’s personally helped them evade capture after an armed rebellion, after all, and he suspects none of them will risk spoiling their friend’s wedding with disorderly conduct. Even that one who’s too fond of wine is being kept on a short leash today. No, there is only one threat, and it comes from the very stones at their feet, from the icons on the walls, from the crosses set into every stained glass window– and there is absolutely nothing Javert can do to protect Valjean against it. 

Still, his gaze sweeps the crowd, making sure that everything is in order, and that all eyes are on the proceedings and not on the father of the bride. From his periphery he watches Valjean. He is already alarmingly weak– Javert suspects that were he not engaged with weeping, he would be too dazed to follow what’s actually happening around them. The silent stream of tears makes for a persuasive disguise. Nobody questions that his eyes are unfocused, that his footsteps are slow, that he leans too heavily on his friend’s arm. He rises and sits at the proper times, goaded into action by the subtle pressure of Javert's arm against his side. He allows himself to be led like a blind man toward the necessary paperwork. At the press of Javert's hand he rouses enough to voice his consent to the marriage and gesture apologetically to the sling on his right arm. 

"A sprain of his wrist," Javert explains for him. "The doctor has forbidden him from holding a pen."

"There's no need to aggravate the injury," old Gillenormand insists, and signs the paper in his stead-- a real signature with a real name, backed by legitimate papers that will stand up to the most thorough scrutiny. (Javert can't help but remember another time when Valjean had emphasized a false vulnerability to lead onlookers to behave as he needed them-- in that case Javert himself, tricked into exposing a prisoner's brand that wasn't there. He still marvels that a creature of such strength and power insists instead on subtlety.)

As quickly as custom allows, Javert leads him from the chapel and into open air. Valjean’s movements seem to come easier as they put some distance between him and the church-- though it is the difference between wading through tar and wading through chest-deep mud. 

Carriages are waiting on the street to take the wedding party to Gillenormand’s home for the reception. They are to move separately, rather than in a grand procession-- clearing the street and arranging a police escort would require close dealing with the police, and seeing as the groom and quite a number of his guests are technically fugitives from the law, that felt a little too much like tempting fate. Javert has factored that into his plans: once he’s helped Valjean into one of the less ostentatious carriages and drawn the curtains, he instructs the driver to take a particularly circuitous route to their destination, to keep them separate from the rest and give themselves a little more time.

The inside of the carriage feels more like a sanctuary than the church did. The drawn curtains shroud the space in comfortable darkness. The clatter of wheels on cobblestones further drown out the noises of outside, one more layer of privacy between the two of them and the outside world. Valjean sits no straighter than he did before, his head remains bowed, his face wet, but at least in here there is no need to shield him from the unforgiving eyes of strangers. At least in here he is free to hurt and to grieve uninterrupted and unjudged, at least for a little while. 

Quietly Javert unknots his cravat and works at the first buttons of his shirt. The February chill is sharp against the bared skin, but he has long since stopped caring about the cold.

Movement catches his eye and makes him pause. Valjean’s hand hangs in the air between them. “That won’t be necessary.” 

Javert doesn’t move to refasten his buttons. “We had an agreement, Jean.”

“I haven’t forgotten.” Valjean’s voice is thick and slow, but the words come out with deliberate force. “We agreed that I would take more if I needed it, and I don’t. What I had yesterday was more than sufficient.” 

“Anyone who looks at your face would say otherwise,” Javert points out, cross. “Until now they averted their eyes from your weeping out of common courtesy; that won’t be the case once we reach the reception.” 

He can see Valjean rallying the strength to form another protest, and he cuts it off at the pass. “Cosette will expect a dance with her father. Would you really have her memory of that disturbed by worry for your health?” 

Valjean’s shoulders sag and he bends his head in silent permission.  

It’s an unfair blow to strike today of all days, and Javert knows it-- and if he had any other means, he would use them. But his arsenal of persuasion is depleted to almost nothing, and his own mental reserves are running dry. It seems the only thing he still has in sufficient quantity is what runs in his veins.

He sets his cravat aside and finishes unbuttoning his shirt enough to expose his shoulder.  

“Come now, Jean.” He leans close, so Valjean won’t have to. “You’ll feel better after.” 

“I don’t think that’s true.” Valjean sighs. He raises a hand to Javert’s other shoulder, ostensibly to pull him closer, but his hand merely lingers there. “I’ve lost her, Javert.” 

“Nonsense,” Javert says curtly. “The only change will be in the frequency that you see her-- which will remain high, do you understand me? I won’t have you disappearing on her in some vain attempt at martyrdom." Valjean gives him a familiar look, and Javert's tone sharpens further still. "You will adjust to these new circumstances and you will thrive, Jean Valjean, or by God I will tell her that you’ve changed your mind and agreed to move in with them after all.”

Valjean’s brows rise in the first show of emotion that isn’t abject misery. “You wouldn’t.”

Javert bares his teeth with wolfish ferocity. “By all means, test me and see.” 

He would do it, too. Even though it would mean his own time with Valjean would be limited to social visits. Opportunities to touch him, to hold him, to call him by his name, would become vanishingly rare. Chances to share his bed and cling to him as he sleeps would cease completely. It would be an unpleasant transition. It would be a fair price to pay for Valjean’s happiness. 

Valjean lets his head fall; it might look like another wave of despair, if not for the tiny shakes in his shoulders that betray a small, unvoiced chuckle. 

Strange, that it's a threat that breaks through to him when gentle cajoling seldom does.

Valjean's fingers curl over Javert’s shoulder with a fraction more strength. 

“How would I manage without you?” His tone is almost warm, but the edge of his thumb ghosts over one of the scars exposed by Javert’s open shirt, betraying an undercurrent of worry.

“Fortunately you won’t need to find out.” Javert covers that cool hand with his own. “Not for many years yet, at which point I’m sure you will have enough grandchildren to keep your thoughts occupied. And great-grandchildren, perhaps.” A little more light creeps into Valjean’s eyes at that. He’s always been so enchanted by children, even as far back as Montreuil; surely as a grandfather he’ll go so far beyond doting as to be truly insufferable, and Javert looks forward to the day when he gets to see it. “But that is another time. Today we have a reception to attend, and you must be in a fit state to attend it.” 

Valjean closes the distance between them-- not to actually feed, still, but Javert is too busy being kissed to be properly cross about it. They part with a sigh, and finally Valjean bends his neck to linger over Javert’s shoulder. He presses another kiss to the skin there, chaste enough to be accused of procrastination, until at last Javert feels the sweet pain of fangs cutting into flesh. After all the stress and tension leading up to this damned wedding, the sensation is like a cool rainshower at the end of a heatwave.

Valjean sucks at the wound-- no doubt there will be a dark bruise there tomorrow-- tonight it will be tender under his collar, and his cravat will apply continuous pressure, a constant reminder. 

He stifles a groan at the thought. The ritual of Valjean feeding from him has always been so intimate that even now he's conditioned to respond with hunger of his own. He wants to divest them both of these uncomfortable clothes and climb on top of him. He wants to reach between Valjean's thighs and bring him to completion and then lick him clean of all evidence. He wants so desperately. He tells himself he will not push for an end to the chastity between them,  and he won't,  but he can't help a swell of desire. 

He restrains himself before he can act on it. It was foolish to offer his neck this way. He knew better than to invite the temptation. By all means he should be offering blood from his arm, the way Valjean's other donors do-- but Valjean has only fed from him that way once, also in a carriage, and every time he's considered the thought he's been violently dragged back into that moment, when Valjean was helpless to defend himself while he, Javert, tried to decide which one of them to destroy, and he can't go back to that place again, he can't, he can't,  he can't-- 

"Javert?" Fingers tighten gently around his arm and other shoulder, grounding him back to the present. "Have I hurt you?"

"No, Jean." Quite the opposite, in fact.

"I've taken too much."

"You've hardly taken anything at all," Javert scolds, though he isn't sure how much time has passed. They might have spent weeks in this carriage, or only minutes. His position on the matter would be the same regardless. "You need your strength."

A soft tongue laves over the wound, cleaning and then mending it, and then it’s sealed once more with a kiss. Valjean raises his head until they are level, and his eyes are clear and focused for the first time in hours. 

"You are my strength, Javert."

Blood is smeared across his lips. Javert should be hunting down a second handkerchief, but his fingers catch on Valjean’s lapels instead. He can’t look away. 

Shaken, shaking, he can only cling.

Part 3 is done and I'll post it probably within the week.

I've also got a few chapters of another (tragically non-vampire) Valvert fic in the wings, so I'll start posting that by the end of the month

Shortly after their arrival at Gillenormand’s residence there is a wedding feast.

That is as clearly as Javert can define it. The dishes lavished across the table are ostensibly food, but half of it is exotic and all of it is prepared so elaborately that he can’t hazard any guesses beyond ‘meat’ and ‘fish’ and ‘vegetable of some sort’. He spears a forkful of what he guesses to be in the category of meat and brings it to his mouth-- and just barely manages to swallow the unexpectedly cloying whatever-it-is after the shock of sweetness wears off.

“Is it not to your liking?” Valjean asks from beside him, his voice a bare murmur between them. He still looks weighed down with exhaustion, but Javert is gratified to see him so alert. 

He affects as much of a scowl as he can get away with in this setting. “You’ve seen the sort of things I typically eat. This is…”

“Jarring,” Valjean agrees. “The offerings weren’t the only reason I avoided parties in M sur M, but they certainly didn’t tempt me to reconsider.” 

That change must have been even more alarming-- since living with Valjean, Javert’s diet has remained fairly simple, but upon Cosette’s insistence the quality has improved drastically. Even before then, he’d been made to attend some formal functions as Chabouillet’s protege that have at least exposed him to some of the more absurdly rich flavors. Valjean had no such patronage, beyond a single night in the Bishop’s company. He went from being an impoverished tree-pruner to a galley slave, and then almost overnight to a factory owner and politician. How he managed the transition is baffling. 

“I think I’ll forego the rest,” Javert says.

“Eat, Javert.” The gentleness of his tone doesn’t quite disguise the command. “You need your strength, too.”

Javert turns his head slightly, and his cravat presses against the healing wound where Valjean drank from him, not an hour ago. He nearly shivers. He’d like to lean against Valjean and hear that low murmur directly in his ear, if propriety would allow such a thing. Gathering himself, he attempts to obey. 

“What is this even supposed to be?” Javert prods at a shapeless… thing. “I previously assumed it was too early for dessert, but then I had… whatever that other one was.”

Valjean inhales lightly, scenting the air. “I believe that one’s some kind of fish.”

“Fish.” He prods it again. No sea creature is meant to take that shape.

“Poached, I believe? With wine.”

It’s still far too rich for his palate, but it’s easier for Javert to bring it down when he knows what to expect. Enheartened, he pokes at another (the greenness would imply a vegetable, but he no longer trusts appearances).

“Some kind of sprout,” Valjean says. “Similar to… cabbage?”

He might almost call it a game, if either of them were the type for such frivolities. Nonetheless, it’s a comfort: the whole of his attention is focused on Valjean and away from the enormous hall full of strangers, with all their chatter and perfumes and overwhelming presence. Valjean, himself, seems to grow more at ease with his mind bent to a task instead of left to wander among the reminders of his grief. Twice they are interrupted by fellow guests who make good-natured attempts at conversation. The two of them reply as necessary and supply what answers are requested of them, but each time the conversation sputters out after only a few exchanged words. 

“I think we might be the two least suitable guests for a wedding feast,” he mutters to Valjean when yet another interloper is rebuffed. “I suspect there are cave-dwelling hermits with more social graces than the both of us.” 

Valjean’s cheek shifts ever so slightly into the ghost of a smile, and his shoulders shake with an unvoiced laugh– the second Javert has coaxed out of him today. 

Privately he endeavors to practice his wit. He’d like to see Valjean laugh more often. 

Javert opens his eyes and blinks in confusion. He's stiff. Sore. Sitting upright before a well-supplied fireplace while scraps of conversation and distant strains of music filter past his ears.

And Valjean is gone.

He springs to his feet and immediately collapses back into his chair, blinking away the gray blur that sweeps over his vision.

"Hey." A young man prods his shoulder. "Easy there. Nothing's on fire that shouldn't be."

Javert looks over. He recognizes that face-- one of the schoolboys from the barricade. 

"I shouldn't be here," Javert says stupidly.

"Yes, I hear that a lot. Usually from myself, but that's what friends and wine are for, don't you agree?" 

"No," Javert says. Doesn't the boy understand that Valjean is gone? "Je--" no, not Jean, not here, there's another name he's to call him in public but he's dizzy and the world keeps tipping one way and the other. "My friend. He's-- I should be with him. I shouldn't have fallen asleep, I don't understand--"

"I don't know, it might have something to do with all the wedding preparations," the young man says. "Marius says you've been chasing his new father-in-law across half of Paris lately. That's no small thing for a man your age." 

No, it isn't. Nor is marching the streets until nearly dawn this morning, or losing however much blood he'd given before Valjean had put a stop to it.

The boy jerks his head to the side. "He's over there with his daughter, if you want to know. Has been for most of the night, even before you started nodding."

"Ah." He follows the boy's gaze to Valjean. His broad shoulders are tight, but he looks to Cosette with all the warmth and attention he ever has. "Is he well?"

"You mean is he sobbing himself hoarse like he was at the ceremony? No, whatever it is you said or did to him, he's calmer now."

Javert's eyes narrow. "I did nothing to him."

"Of course not." The boy gives a parody of a salute. "You know, he practically carried you over here when you started getting all sleep-drunk. He was ready to call a fiacre and take you home, but you kept slurring about how he needed to be here. We promised him we'd keep an eye on you."

"We," Javert repeats.

"Jehan was watching you until a quarter hour ago. ‘Ponine did some, too, for a bit there.”

“And that makes us even, then?” Javert looks away, but he can still feel the boy’s eyes on him.

“Do I look like a banker to you? This isn’t about credits and debts. Just like him fussing over you isn’t some payback for you acting as his valet or whatever. He does it because he wants to. Just like you don’t play bodyguard for him just because you owe him something.”

“On the contrary.” Once again Javert’s eyes fall on Valjean. “I owe him everything.”

“Knowing what I do of him, you’re probably not wrong. But that’s not why you do it.” 

Javert can’t bring himself to disagree.

Hours pass. Valjean lingers at Cosette’s side until the end, though frequently he excuses himself to Javert’s side. 

“We can leave, if you wish,” he tells him several times throughout the night, though a part of his attention is always drawn back to his daughter as if by an invisible thread. 

“Stay,” Javert insists on each occasion. “The conversation here is more than sufficiently engaging.” Granted, the conversation largely happens around him, but the children of the barricade don’t seem to mind his dozing, and their congregating around his chair makes it seem as if he is at least sometimes an active participant. 

It’s nearly dawn when the couple of honor finally excuse themselves to bed and the last of the guests filter away.

“Come, Javert,” Valjean murmurs, easing him out of the chair and into his hat and coat. A fiacre is waiting outside to take them home.

Javert wants to make conversation, but his head is muddled and the only questions he can think to ask– how was it? Did you enjoy yourself? Was it as terrible as you feared?-- seem inappropriate in a way he can neither articulate nor rephrase into something more diplomatic. He mumbles a few words, but they are forgotten before they leave his mouth.

The fiacre stops and he is eased out of the car and onto the street, and through the gate at the Rue Plumet. He finds himself thinking what a long way it will be to cross the endless garden to the cottage, when he feels himself swept off his feet. In the first moment there is a flash of panic– has he nodded off again while standing? Is he falling?-- and then he becomes aware of powerful arms looped under his arms and knees, and a broad chest steady against his side. He’s being carried like a bride, he realizes belatedly, and grabs his hat to keep it from tumbling into the snow. He might swoon, if he weren’t on the verge of fainting already. 

“I forget, sometimes, how strong you are,” he murmurs into Valjean’s ear, and is rewarded with a gentle tightening of the arms around him. 

“Stronger when I have you with me,” Valjean murmurs back. And then, “I’m going to set you on your feet again, Javert, just for a short while.” A moment later he puts Javert down, still holding him upright with one hand as he fits keys into the door of the cottage with the other. 

They’re at the door. It didn’t seem nearly so long– the endless snowdrifts passed by in what felt like an instant. 

The door shuts behind them, and Valjean eases the coat from Javert’s shoulders and hangs it from the hook, alongside his hat. Javert fumbles with the rest of his clothes while Valjean tends to the fire, and then then crawls beneath the layers of quilts. 

Valjean hesitates at the edge of the bed, watching him with a look of remorse. “I should not have kept you out for so long.”

“You asked, I answered. Several times, in fact.” Javert pulls back the covers to make a space for him. “Come to bed, Jean. You know I sleep better with you.” 

Valjean doesn’t make him ask again before he climbs into bed beside him. The last thing Javert remembers of the night is watery sunlight peeking around the edges of the curtains while the two of them lay intertwined. 

In a just world, that might have been the end of it: the wedding is over, and all its stresses and unpleasantries behind them. Instead it feels a little bit like climbing a mountain: the journey is easier once they’ve reached the summit, but then comes the journey back down. 

The day after the wedding they barely leave the bed at all except to put wood on the fire, to swallow down some food and water, and a few other bodily necessities. The day after that, Javert is recovered enough to drag himself from bed, but Valjean doesn’t join him– nor on the next.

At any other time, Javert might have summoned Cosette to cheer him up, but she and Marius will already have left on their honeymoon. That is, he suspects, most of the problem.

Javert does what he can with physical touch, wrapping himself chastely around Valjean and murmuring nonsense into his skin. When restlessness drives him to leave the bed, he reads over paperwork and legal documents, trying to make sense of who owns what properties and how they are to change hands now that Cosette is married, but he’s largely at a loss. Valjean shuffled everything around so completely in an effort to protect his privacy and Cosette’s security, and the result is a tangled mess of legal jargon. He tries to ask Valjean, but that only sends the other man deeper into his stupor.

“I shouldn’t be doing this to you,” Valjean says one day. His voice is reedy and hoarse from disuse, and his eyes are focused on Javert for the first time in far too long. “It would be kinder to send you away and spare you from–” His voice breaks. “It would be kinder, but I can’t. I can’t bring myself to do it.”

“Nor should you.” Javert sits beside him and traces the edges of Valjean’s jaw with his fingertips. His beard is getting overlong; they should go out to a barber at some point to cut it. “Send me away if you want, but I won’t go. You can disappear on me, but I’ll hunt you down, Jean Valjean. I’ll track you to the ends of the earth if I have to.” He cups Valjean’s cheek and looks him in the eye, all bravado seeping away. “So why not save us both the trouble, Jean. Stay with me.” 

That night he wraps himself around him even tighter, afraid he might wake up to find him gone.

The next day Javert finds a letter at the door of the main house, bearing Cosette’s familiar looping handwriting shaped into her new name. 

He brings it dutifully to Valjean’s bedside, but the other man stares at it with trepidation, as though the envelope might shatter like glass if he touched it. Javert offers to read it to him instead, a small amount of impatient huffing disguising the fear that Valjean might otherwise leave it completely unread.

It is a predictable letter: Cosette thanks her father profusely for all he has done for her, and then goes on to describe her adventures with her husband in the countryside. More than a few times she adds welcome little asides– “I’m told the hillsides covered in grape vines are magnificent when they’re in full flower. You and I must go see them together when the spring comes,” – “Do you remember Uncle Fauchelevant speaking of the village, when I was a girl? I would love to see it with you.” 

Javert sneaks glances away from the letter with each one; talk of plans for the future together brings a little bit of light back into Valjean’s eyes every time they are mentioned. 

And then he reaches the end. 

“How are things at home?” she asks. “You must tell me everything you’ve done.”

For the first time in days, Valjean seems to notice the state of himself and the tangled nest of linens that has become his refuge since the wedding. Eventually he removes himself with creaking joints and staggers to his writing desk, but sits there, simply staring at the empty page.

“She wants to know what we’ve done,” he says. “How can I tell her that the answer is nothing?”

“Then we will simply have to find activities to report to her. A visit to the barber wouldn’t be amiss.” Javert kisses Valjean’s overgrown hair. “And I thought perhaps we might drop in on her husband’s outlaw friends. I have some documents they might decipher.” 

“She expects a letter back soon, though,” Valjean points out, half in despair. “She’ll think I’ve forgotten her.”

“Impossible. She knows you too well for that. But listen– I will write her a brief response, and let her know that a longer letter is coming. She’ll understand.” 


 Madame Pontmercy,  



 Your letter is received and appreciated. Your father was feeling poorly when it arrived, and at his request I read it aloud; it cheered him significantly. As he is still unable to use a pen, the initial response will be via myself. 



 He insists I inform you that his health is in no danger– I can independently confirm this, should you have reason to doubt, and can confirm witness of improvement upon receipt of the above.  



 Otherwise I can report little of note in the past two weeks; your father has begun the process of quitting his excess properties and the transition of overseeing household maintenance without the service of your Mmme. Toussaint. Otherwise, your father was largely occupied with pensiveness and reminiscing.  



 He anticipates your next correspondence.  



 Javert 


It doesn’t occur to Javert to show the letter to Valjean before he sends it. After all, he is confident in his penmanship and spelling, and none of his superior officers ever complained about the degree of detail in his reports. He doesn’t suspect he might have made an error until a week later, when Cosette’s reply arrives. Valjean takes it with less trepidation than the last, but as he reads over the missive his face falls.

“Just what did you tell her?” he asks. 

“Nothing untrue,” Javert says.

“She seems to think I was wasting away from melancholy.” 

Silently, Javert reiterates:  nothing untrue.  “You asked me to tell her it was nothing terminal; I did.” 


My dearest Cosette,



[...]



Javert and I went out to meet your husband’s companions in one of their regular cafes, where indeed they were engaging in philosophical debate, and they were quick to welcome us to join them.


I’m afraid, though, that the two of us are old men who are slow to welcome change, and we can at times be caught quite off guard by the new ideas of youth. As such, there arose a debate between Javert and one of our hosts which quickly became quite heated. Before I could intervene, several of the others put a wine glass in my hand and insisted I join them in a game they had quickly constructed. Many of the rules were lost on me, except these: that we were each to take a sip every time Javert said the words ‘law’ or ‘order’, and that we were to drain and refill our glasses each time they argued on the definition of ‘justice’. I am concerned that we may have caused offense, but when we took our leave we were invited to return, and the young gentlemen seemed to be in high spirits. In a final offering of peace, I took care to pay for the group’s drinks, as the little game had gotten quite out of hand. Perhaps during our next visit we could make use of an interpreter who could translate for us, to avoid quite such a heated debate.

Over the course of the letters Cosette and her father (and, vicariously, Javert) make plans for a garden– she voices her preferences for what might be planted, Valjean plots them according to their needs for sun and water and compatibility, and Javert tries to turn his plans for a bountiful wilderness into something orderly, only for some of his suggestions to be written off in favor of practical experience with the land. All of this, of course, is recounted to Cosette, who delights in the exchange.

There are other debates she is not informed of:

A week after the wedding, Javert is as agitated as Valjean is listless. The argument arises between them again and again, until they can recite each other’s points from memory. Valjean insists he isn’t hungry, that he fed excessively the week previous, that he’s done nothing to exert himself since leaving the chapel, that he’s gone longer without feeding without adverse effects. Javert, now that he no longer has Cosette’s happiness to threaten him with, is left with two main points:  I don’t care, and  you have to eat. 

There is a third point that he consistently tries to raise, but each time he makes the attempt it sticks in his throat.


 If you don’t want to leave home for blood, then take it from me. You know I would enjoy it– you’d be doing me a service. I want your mouth on me, Jean– I want your teeth in me– I want you so badly– 


Which is why he cannot put it into words. Valjean has made no move to resume those relations between them. Perhaps he is simply not yet sufficiently recovered for it, or perhaps he has no intention of ever picking them up again. Javert won’t fault him, if he doesn’t, won’t resent him or hold it against him. But he can’t repress the memory of Valjean’s anguish the last time he was forced to rebuff his advances. Javert won’t do that to him again. 

They do, at last, reach a compromise. Valjean gets an additional three days of moping self-denial, and at last he lets Javert march him out on their usual route to give out alms and take blood.  

A thought has crossed Javert’s mind on more than one occasion in the past days, and he finds himself warming to it more the more he thinks of it. 

When another letter arrives from Cosette, Javert leaves Valjean alone to read it, and takes the opportunity to steal into the main house.

Straight pins are easy enough to find among the sewing supplies. The maps are still in the library where Javert last saw them put away, stashed alongside travel books and almanacs detailing weather for this time of year. Those he ignores, taking instead the relevant maps, a sufficiently large board, and few other odds and ends, and retrieves them back to the cottage. 

“Javert?” Valjean sets down the letter in his hands. “What’s all that?” 

“In a moment,” Javert says. 

The board, he decides, will have to be affixed to a wall, but for the time being he lays it across Valjean’s writing desk and stretches the largest map across it, pinning it into place at the corners. An additional pin is affixed over a point on the map: a small village just outside Paris whose architecture Cosette had praised. Another marks a second village farther out, still, where she had recounted a shepherd allowing her to coddle his newborn lambs. Another after it. Another. 

“What is this?” Valjean asks.

Instead of answering, Javert fixes a pin over Paris itself, and fixes the end of a blue string to the metal. The string is pulled taut to connect to the second pin, and then the third, and then he allows it to hang limp while he turns away to hunt down the past letters. 

“Was it Vulaines-sur-Seine or Varennes? Do you remember?”

Valjean doesn’t answer him. He’s utterly silent, leaning over the map. He traces over the blue thread with a finger, following it from one pin to the next over the course of Cosette’s journey.

His back is to Javert, and so it’s impossible to see his face, but Javert tries to read the lines of his body. He’s thought himself almost fluent in the angles of his back and shoulders, but this time he finds himself unsure of what he sees there.

It occurs to Javert all at once that perhaps this was misguided. That Valjean might not want such an obvious reminder of his daughter’s absence from him-- least of all one arranged like a board of evidence at the prefecture. He steps closer, feeling uncomfortably self-conscious. 

“A visual aid,” he explains to Valjean’s back. “I thought I might include additional markers at those places that she wanted to return to with you.” He swallows. “If it displeases you--”

The rest of the words don’t have a chance to leave his mouth, because his lips are suddenly very occupied with Valjean’s. 

The kiss is clumsy and wet with tears and absolutely electrifying. Valjean’s arms are around him and his hands are tangled in his hair. He keeps moving closer, closer, crowding Javert backward until his legs hit the mattress and he falls back onto the bed. Even when Javert has to pull away to breathe, Valjean keeps kissing him-- his brow and his cheeks and the corners of his jaw. 

Javert becomes aware of Valjean climbing onto the bed on top of him, the thrilling weight of him pressing down on him. Javert’s legs part to give him more room, and unthinking he hitches his knees to that tantalizingly familiar place over Valjean’s hips, his calves folded tight against the small of his back to pull him even closer, and he feels a powerful arm slip underneath him to lift him closer still. He’s hard-- devastatingly, achingly so-- and his breath hitches when he feels an answering hardness pressing between his thighs. Valjean pulls them flush and they grind together, the friction setting Javert’s nerves alight. 

Valjean’s breath comes heavy against his ear. “Shall I bite you?”

Javert’s heart leaps. “Yes– Jean, yes, please, yes–”

He tears at his shirt. Buttons scatter, fabric rips, but at last he has it free and clear for Valjean to sink his teeth in deep. Javert’s back arches off the mattress, his chest flush with Valjean’s, his head thrown back. Almost immediately Valjean laves his tongue over the wound to seal it, and if Javert weren’t panting like a racehorse he would protest– it can’t be over, not yet, not already– 

And then Valjean sinks his teeth in again. Further down, deeper still, so unexpected that it wrenches a scream from Javert’s throat. His hips buck wildly. He can’t think– the world is collapsed to the two of them, the friction building incrementally between them, the weight bearing down on him, the blazing pleasure-pain of Valjean’s mouth biting-sucking-licking, the ever-more erratic rhythm of Valjean’s hips against his–

There’s one last bite, hard and sharp and deep– one last impact of his heavy cock against Javert’s caged balls– one last squeeze of that powerful arm around him, so tight it might crush his bones– and Javert is coming undone completely, babbling his worship to the one man who deserves it. 

He comes down slowly, delirious and still shaking from the aftershocks. There is a stickiness in his trousers, but that’s immaterial when Valjean is smiling at him and petting his hair. He leans in to press a kiss to Javert’s shoulder, his jaw, his mouth.

“Thank you, Javert, for taking care of me.” 