Title: A Change of a Bizarre Kind
Work ID: 49894774
Author: M_Moonshade
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Dubious Consent, Madeline Era, mentions of canon-typical suicide attempts and suicidal ideation, protective valjean, Alternate Universe - Jekyll and Hyde Fusion, Case Fic, canon-typical medical/scientific malpractice, Anal Sex, Oral Sex, Biting, Intercrural Sex, these boys have issues to work through
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 12/12

Summary:
Six months ago, Doctor Henry Jekyll sought to escape the dramatics of London by coming to M-sur-M. Tonight his murderer pays a visit to the Mayor Madeline.
(Being the Curious Case of Inspector Javert and Mister Hyde)

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



The night is dark. 



The stormclouds that have threatened on the horizon since afternoon have finally converged, blotting out the moon and stars alike and plunging the world in oppressive darkness. Rain has not yet fallen, but the air is thick with the scent of it, and with the electric tang of lightning. 



A sharp knock cracks at the front door of the mayoral mansion. 



The mayor rises swiftly from his writing desk, taking a single candle with him. He thinks, not for the first time, that this building is far too large for a single person-- the time it takes him to reach the front door might be credited to disrespect, or carelessness, when really it simply takes that long to reach the front entryway. 



(Indeed, his housekeeper might have answered it more quickly, but he sent her away early in anticipation of the storm.)



A second knock sounds at the door, louder and more urgent than the first.



“I’m coming, I’m coming,” the mayor mutters under his breath, and then rises into straight-backed posture of a gentleman. He doesn’t bother to look before he opens the door. There is only a short list of people who would knock on his door in such a way, and even fewer who would do so at this hour.



“Good evening, Inspector,” he says. “Is something the matter?” 



“Monsieur le maire.” The inspector of Montreuil sur Mer’s broad face is illuminated by the light of Madeline’s single candle. He lowers his hat to reveal a shock of blonde hair over far too young a face. “We have report that Javert has been spotted in the area.” 



“Has he?” Madeline says, guarded. His gaze sweeps over the street behind the inspector, as if he might spot another figure creeping in the darkness. 



“Indeed. I can have my officers secure the house, if you’d like.”



Madeline’s gaze falls back to the younger man. “That won’t be necessary.”



“Are you certain? The man is a murderer.”



“I am familiar with his original charges, inspector Faure. I am not afraid of him.”



“I don’t mean to discount Monsieur’s strength,” Faure says quickly. “It’s just that he’s unpredictable. The man’s little better than a rabid dog--”



The mayor’s gaze fixes on him, abruptly cold and hard as iron. “He has lost a good many things, inspector. His humanity is not among them.” 



The young inspector very nearly cowers at that. Instead he retreats back into stiff attention. “Apologies, sir. I only meant to say that you shouldn't underestimate him.”



“Of course.” Madeline, in turn, eases his affect into something more befitting of an old politician. “You only mean to do your duty. But I am safe here. ”



“Yes, sir. I’ll be at the factory tomorrow to give my report.” 



“Tomorrow, then. May God's blessing go with you.”



He shuts the door between the two of them, and locks it. Unease tightens the muscles between his shoulders and tightens his spine. 



Javert has been seen nearby.



He wasn’t merely imagining things, then. 



He deliberates for a few moments and then, having decided, makes his way deeper into the house. His housekeeper left some cold plates for him in the kitchen before she left; that should satisfy. On his way there he steps into the palatial dining hall. It's meant for great gatherings of people, and the enormous table is built to hold enough food to feed an army (and probably half that army as well). He has barely come halfway past the table when a figure detaches itself from the shadows. 



Madeline sets down his candle. Before he can turn, the figure flattens itself against his back. One hand wraps around his throat, fingers and thumb pressing dangerously into his jugular. The other is clamped around his wrist like a shackle, pinioning it behind his back.



“You should listen to your inspector.” The voice is pitched low, barely more than a growl in his ear, and a tremor runs down Madeline's spine. “You never know what sort of people might be lurking in the dark."



Madeline draws a measuring breath-- the air squeezes with difficulty through his windpipe, but the grip isn’t yet so tight as to strangle him. He turns his head as much as he is able and glances over his shoulder. 



“Good evening, Javert," he says, though his voice is little more than a wheeze. "To what do I owe the pleasure?”



“Pleasure.” The growl stretches the word into obscenity. “A fine suggestion, Jean Valjean. Why don't we begin with that." 



With force he turns Madeline to face the massive table and he is marched toward it-- one step, a second-- but at the third Madeline catches his foot around Javert's ankle and yanks it out from underneath him. Instinctively Javert lets go to try and catch himself. Madeline twists to face him-- and then, grabbing the unbalanced Javert by the shoulders, whirls again to lay him flat on his back upon the table. Javert stares breathlessly up at him, the air knocked out of his lungs by the impact. He struggles to sit up, but finds himself pinned in place by a pair of powerful arms, one at his shoulder and the other at his hip. Javert's fingers twine around those wrists, but he can't pry them away. He would just as easily uproot a pair of oaks from the earth as move him.



He gazes up at Madeline, his eyes wide with awe and hunger.



Madeline leans in, and Javert's face goes slack in anticipation.



"What happened?" Madeline asks, his voice still hoarse from the imprint of Javert's hand.



"Fuck you, Valjean."



"I asked you a question." Madeline bears down harder on him, and Javert groans. Madeline couldn't get any closer without climbing on top of him directly.



Javert cants his hips off the table, until he's grinding his erection against Madeline's thigh. "I gave you an answer."



He's insolent. Impudent. Irritating to the extreme.


Thank God.


Madeline kisses him, harsh and forceful and over too soon. When he pulls away, Javert chases after his lips with a frustrated growl, but Madeline is already risen out of his reach.



“Your clothes,” Madeline says, drawing back completely. “Take them off.” 



In this, at least, Javert still obeys him, though his hands fumble with the buttons and closures as he strips them off. It is difficult to make out precise quality of the other man’s clothes with so little light, but the dust and grit clinging to Madeline’s hands is evidence enough that they’re filthy. As they’re stripped away, the single candle illuminates the swaths of bare skin. There are fresh cuts and bruises, some of them bear the telltale signs of a policeman’s cudgel, but no visibly broken bones this time. His ribs and hipbones are still painfully obvious, though he isn’t as dangerously thin as he was before. 



“Well, Valjean?” Fully bare at last, Javert props himself up on his elbows. “How do you want me?”



“I want you safe,” Madeline says. “And comfortable, and well fed.” Ignoring Javert’s glare, he rises to his full height and opens his trousers. “But barring all of that, I’ll take you on your back.”


Madeline wouldn’t have attended the dinner at all if he hadn’t been requested by name. It was meant to be a salon in the Parisian style, hosted by a Mademoiselle Romilly for the sake of her distant relative who’d come to visit– an Englishman who had confessed a need to refresh himself from the stifling crowds of London. He had apparently expressed an interest in moral and natural philosophy, and so his cousin had arranged an eclectic assortment of priests and philosophers (such as Montreuil sur Mer could provide) and other individuals of strong opinion and sterling reputation. For this reason she had elected to invite both Madeline and, to his chagrin, Inspector Javert. 

Had he known about Javert’s attendance, he would have made up some excuse to refuse outright. As it was, he tried to make his escape the moment he spotted the other man across the room, but at every attempt he was dragged back from the door by the inescapable politeness of an ambitious hostess. It was after the third thwarted escape that he heard Javert’s voice raised above the crowd, and instinctively he froze in fear.

“Every man is born in sin,” Javert insisted, slapping his hand down on the table in emphasis. “Those who choose to turn to crime have also chosen their punishment.”

“But how much of a choice does anyone truly have,” said another man, “when circumstances can arise to force one’s hand? A starving man–”

“May choose to go without, rather than to steal! It is his own weakness of character that would press him to do otherwise.”

“But is it possible,” said the other, “that the weakness of character is itself one of those adverse circumstances? If it is beyond the man’s control–”

“That is why we have prisons,” Javert snapped. “If a man cannot restrain his baser instincts, then he must be removed from the presence of those who can.”

“But we have already established that the prisons are unforgivably cruel!” his opponent pressed. “What if there was another way, though?” 

“You speak of reform.” Javert’s voice dripped disgust. “Consider speaking to Monsieur le maire on that matter. You’ll find he’s already persuaded.”

He cast an eye directly at Madeline then, adding a silent accusation beyond that of excessive leniency. Madeline found himself ushered toward the other two. Javert’s arms crossed irritably over the chest of his uniform. The man across from him was close to their age, large and robust, with a handsome, open face. His French was perfect, although notably accented. 

“Our guest of honor, I presume,” Madeline said, retreating into scripted politeness. “Doctor–?”

“Jekyll. Henry Jekyll. And I’ve been led to believe that you’re the sainted Mayor Madeline.”

Madeline flushed. “You heard correctly about my name and office. The rest, I’m afraid, is exaggeration.”

“But perhaps you’ll have some insight to share,” the doctor said. “Your inspector and I were having a most enlightening discussion on the nature of good and evil.” 

“Ah. Yes. I had gathered that.” Indeed, they might have been overheard all the way in Paris.”

“Good, then it isn’t necessary that I summarize.” The doctor leaned in. “But I would argue that if weakness of character is truly born from deep within the soul, then one’s character cannot truly be reformed unless that flaw is first rooted out.”

“And this, it seems, is where you come in.” Javert rolled his eyes and landed his gaze back on Madeline. "At last you have an audience for your sermons on God and forgiveness. You must be overjoyed."

“I find the whims of the Almighty are too capricious to be trusted entirely,” the doctor said.

A nearby priest coughed politely. Another man muttered something unfavorable about Englishmen. 

“I am pursuing a theory,” the doctor continued. “That the source of evil is not the devil, but that it can be found in the body itself. And if it can be found, it can be removed.”

“Like an exorcism, you mean.”

“Like an infection. One that, if left to fester, infects the whole of the body. But if properly lanced and allowed to bleed out, will leave the body more healthy in its absence.” 

"And how do you propose to lance this infection, Doctor?"

"Generally, through science. I've made some small progress in my research, but I'm afraid I've hit some blocks that impede me. It was my hope that coming to France-- to hearing new perspectives from fine people like yourselves-- might provide the inspiration I need to continue."

The conversation thankfully turned elsewhere after that, away from sin and morality and more toward science and chemistry, with which Madeline had neither interest nor enough familiarity to speak. He took shelter in a distant corner of the room and resigned himself to wait until the hour grew late enough to permit his leaving. But as things never quite went the way he hoped, he soon found himself joined by Javert. 

“Monsieur le maire, a word.” His eyes bored into Madeline with that inescapable intensity, and he repressed a shudder.

“Were you hoping to revive the debate?” he asked with forced levity. “I’m sure we can bring in a few more participants, if you’re so inclined.”

“I would prefer to keep the inevitable argument short, rather. It’s on a matter of public safety.” 

Madeline leaned in. “I’m listening.”

“The recent crime spree continues to escalate. There was another attack tonight, this time on a… public woman. Her pimp attempted to intervene, and for his efforts he is lying in a hospital bed and dying of internal injuries. The woman’s description of her attacker was consistent with the rest.” 

Madeline looked away. 

“All of this could have waited for my report in the afternoon, but the subject of the evening has brought a related matter to the forefront of my mind.”

“A related matter,” Madeline repeated. 

“In the light of these events, your habit of giving alms in the evenings is becoming problematic-- more problematic,” he amends with a glare. “The baser elements are encouraged to venture out into the night and approach whatever figures come walking, hoping that they will be you. You must realize that presently, they are just as likely to run into Hyde--  alone, in the dark, with no hope that police or passersby will be close enough to save them. You are becoming the bait that lures them into his waiting maw, do you understand that?”

Madeline fell silent for a long moment before he formed his response. “I will look into rearranging my schedule. Perhaps I can take my walks during my lunch hour.” 

“It would be safer to discontinue them altogether.”

“No, Javert.” Madeline met Javert’s gaze then, and something in his look made the other man draw a sharp breath. “I won’t withhold help from the people who need it.”


There's a face that we hideTill the nighttime appearsAnd what's hiding insideBehind all of our fearsIs our true selfLocked inside the facade


CW: There's some sexual-tinted violence toward the end of this chapter. Please take care of yourselves.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



Javert is acutely aware of his body in a way he hasn’t been in hours: the smooth polished wood under his back; the soreness in his fingers where he’d clung to the table ledge for purchase; the more intimate ache where he’s been stretched open, eased by oil and the intolerable gentleness of Valjean’s preparations. 



Javert wasn’t nearly so delicate with Valjean when he arrived. He can still feel the memory of his pulse jumping under Javert’s hand as he squeezed his throat, though Valjean had never allowed any outward sign of alarm. He hides the rest of his feelings with the same skill as he helps Javert off the table and onto his feet. Resentment, surely. Anger, perhaps, or fear. And certainly, inescapably, hate.



Javert shudders. 



“Easy, Javert,” Valjean says, soft and soothing as ever, and curls an arm around his bare shoulders. “Come into the kitchen.”



There’s a second table in here, small and rough and more practical than the ornate furniture in the next room, and a chair with a wooden seat rather than a cushion that might be ruined by oil or effluence from his sitting on it. Gingerly he sets himself down while Valjean loads a plate with food-- bread and meat and fruits and cheeses, far too much for anyone to eat in one sitting, though the pangs in Javert’s stomach insist that he will try.



Meals are hard to come by these days, except from Valjean’s hands and the soup kitchens he insists on funding. He avoided those, too, at the beginning-- but he’s learned the hard way his episodes can be brought on by excessive hunger. Honest work is difficult to come by, given his reputation, and he refuses to steal food or accept work from those criminals who might be willing to hire him. And so it comes always back to this: Valjean’s damnable charity.



The man himself kneels at Javert’s feet, a damp cloth in hand. With those same infuriatingly gentle hands, he wipes the spend from Javert’s stomach and prick and thighs. 



Javert still doesn’t know how to feel about the sight of it. Prisoner 24601 is a convict and recidivist who by all rights belongs on his knees, performing such degrading service for his betters (though Javert hardly qualifies as that anymore). Madeline is a gentleman and a mayor, far too respectable to perform a task so far beneath him, and it seems almost blasphemous to see him this way. Jean Valjean is somehow both of them at once, superimposed upon one another until it makes Javert’s head ache to look at him. So instead he looks away, and turns his attention to eating his fill. 



Thunder cracks on the other side of the shuttered windows. Valjean raises his head to look at them, as though to remind himself that they’ve been properly shut. Another thunderclap sounds, followed this time by the rattle of rain hitting the window panes. 



“I’m glad you're here tonight,” Valjean says, not looking away from them. 



Javert sneers at grand dining table in the other room, the mess still visible from where he’s sitting. “Clearly.”



“I have a bath prepared, if you’d like to use it.” 



Javert wants to refuse, just out of spite, but he can’t bring himself to say it. He hates the filth and grime clinging to him nearly as much as he hates Valjean’s pity. He can at times still scrape together other sources of food, other places to lay his head for a few hours at a time, but he’s found no alternative for this. 



Still, he can’t help but make one final barb before he makes his way to the now-familiar washroom: “A vial of oil in your pocket, a meal waiting in your kitchen, and now a full tub. One might think you were expecting me.” 



"I hoped," Valjean admits, and lowers his eyes. “I was worried you would be caught in the storm.” 



“Of course.” 



Javert wonders if that was even an option, given his recent circumstances. He has learned the hard way that certain actions are now barred from him: he cannot throw himself into the ocean, cannot starve himself, cannot turn his shaving razor to anything beyond an accidental nick while grooming. He has endured some storms lately, but none of them had threatened to be as severe as what presently rages outside. 



He might experiment to find the precise level of danger that draws out a reaction, except for two things. First, careless scientific processes are the cause of his troubles in the first place, and have largely soured his taste for them; and second, every time he crosses that unknown threshold, he finds himself back here again in Valjean’s home.



And all that disregards the third piece of evidence– the third variable, as Jekyll would have named it: the change is not always triggered by danger at all.



There’s a knock at the washroom door. It seems pointless to do so: Valjean has seen every square inch of him in every state of disarray already, but still Valjean knocks.



“Enter,” Javert says, if only to get it over with.



Valjean opens the door. In one hand is a bundle of fabric, neatly folded, which he sets down beside the towel. In the other is a kettle, clearly fresh from the stove, a thin trail of vapor rising from its spout. 



“Hot water,” he explains needlessly. “And clean clothes. I’ll have the others laundered for when you return.”



 When. Because of course there’s no question of it, is there? Javert always comes crawling back.



Javert makes a flippant gesture which Valjean must interpret as an indication to continue, because he begins adding it to the tepid water of the bath. Javert doesn’t look at him before steps into it and starts lathering a washcloth with gently scented soap (of course it is) and begins scrubbing the grime from his skin.



“Would you like help with your hair?” Valjean asks softly, because of course he does. Javert has half a mind to hurl the soap at him and shout for him to leave, but instead he shrugs. It’s a pointless exercise in self-denial. He’s learned by now that throwing things might persuade Valjean to leave for the moment, but only ever as a courtesy. 



Valjean pulls up a stool behind the tub and runs his fingers down Javert’s back before he gathers the long hair in his hands. The touch is warm and soft and nearly hypnotic, and Javert finds himself going still as the whole of his mind fixates on the feel of it. Valjean valiantly pretends not to notice as he combs through the mats and tangles that are forming there. 



“I ought to cut it,” Javert says. “It’s getting to be more trouble than it’s worth.”



“That’s why they kept us shorn in Toulon,” Valjean says. “Easier to prevent tangles and lice.” 



Javert stills. “Are there lice?” He’s been so careful, but even the most strident efforts mean little in the gutter. He remembers them all too well from his childhood, and at the sound of the word alone he can feel the nits climbing in his hair, biting at his scalp, itching, itching,  itching –



“None that I’ve seen,” Valjean assures him. “But I’ll look more carefully.” He slides the teeth of the comb a little harder against Javert’s scalp, scratching at the phantom itch without abrading the delicate skin there. 



“Nothing,” he reports at last, and returns to his combing. “You’ll be happy to know you’ve passed inspection.” 



Blessedly, he doesn’t offer his opinion on whether Javert should keep it long. If he said he liked it long, Javert would have no choice but to cut it– or else have to come to terms with the fact that Valjean’s opinion of his looks mattered to him. 



Which it doesn’t.



 It doesn’t. 



“I didn't go back to the sea,” Javert says abruptly. “If that's what you're wondering.”



Valjean’s hands still for only a moment. “Ah.”



“I tried to leave Montreuil. By road, not by hand,” he clarifies, because by this point he must. “Not that it makes any difference, because I find myself here all the same.”



“Did you get very far?”



“Obviously not. Only a few miles past the boundaries of the town. In the forest.”



Valjean hums ambivalently. “It’s a bad night to be lost in the woods.” 



“I wouldn’t have gotten lost,” Javert snaps. “The roads are clearly marked. I would have been fine.”



“Then why the change?”



That’s the question, isn’t it? The third variable. 



He wasn’t trying to end his life this time. He wasn’t in any danger at all, as far as he was concerned– he hadn’t given a second thought to the clouds in the sky, except to grouse at the possibility of getting wet before he made it some kind of shelter. He had a plan ahead of him, a chance for a new start in some other corner of France, and he had every intention of taking it.



Almost every intention. 



Because it would be difficult, leaving Montreuil. It’s difficult enough staying, of course, but here at least he has his ignoble benefactor. Most days he refuses the offer of a meal and a bath and a bed unless his condition leaves him no other choice, but at least he still has the option to take them. 



If he left, that assurance would be lost to him. 



He’d worried about that. Yes, he would go so far as to admit it distressed him. And eventually that distress had triggered the change, and he’d wound up right back here. 



“Javert?” 



He hunches lower in the tub, curling in on himself. Valjean is still combing his hair. It has no right to feel as pleasant as it does.



“The only reason I keep coming back to you is because you keep feeding me,” he says, staring into the water. 



“I feed you because you come to me hungry. I'm not going to turn away a man in need.”



“But If you stop, I'll be forced to go elsewhere.”



“You shouldn’t have to.”



Javert’s lip curls in a scowl. “Spare me your charity.” 



Valjean doesn’t immediately answer. For what feels like ages, the only noise in the washroom is the quiet susurration of a comb moving through hair. Maybe he will cut it after all.



“It isn’t entirely selfless,” Valjean says at last. 



“You’re doing your reputation no favors,” Javert replies. “Of all your miserable schools and soup kitchens and almsgiving,  I’m what has people convinced you’re too soft to run this town.”



“They might not be wrong about that.” His concession shouldn’t hurt so much to hear.



“Surely the sex can’t be what’s driving this madness of yours,” Javert snaps. “The wharf is full of whores who will let you fuck them and call it charity.”



Valjean flinches, and Javert can feel the sudden absence of knuckles against his back and fingers carding through his hair. He shouldn’t regret his words. He shouldn’t want to take them back and apologize. He should want to mete out some punishment on this fugitive from justice, no matter how petty.



When Valjean speaks again, he is nearly inaudible. “Do you know, you’re the only one who calls me by my name.”



Obviously. Nobody else knows it. Valjean shouldn’t act bereft when the deception was his work in the first place.



“Is that the secret, then?” Javert demands, twisting to face him. “If I join in your grand charade and call you Madeline like all the rest, will you finally give up on me?”



Valjean is curled in on himself, his hands tightened helplessly around the comb. 


Stop this, he wants to say. Stop doing this. Stop letting me hurt you.


“Well?” Javert’s voice rises further still. “Will you?” 



Slowly, wearily, Valjean lifts his gaze to look him in the eye. “No.” 



“Get out.” Javert snatches the comb from Valjean’s hands. “I can wash my own damn hair. Get out!” 



Valjean rises with all the dignity befitting a mayor, silent and slow. He bows his head, the essence of propriety, and then takes his leave. 



It is a perfectly acceptable exit. It shouldn’t make want Javert want to beg his forgiveness. 



The thought crosses his mind that Valjean might grow tired of this charade. Not today, perhaps, but eventually he’ll listen, or at least he’ll come to his senses. And then Javert will be barred from his door and from his touches and from his bed, and he’ll never have to see him again.



He forces the thought away before it can take hold of him, the way it did on the road.


Inspector Javert had by no means enjoyed the farcical salon. But the conversation, infuriating though it was, at least gave him excuse to voice some opinions and refine his thoughts for argument, which was not entirely unpleasant. And so, when the visiting Englishman called on him to continue their debates, he accepted the invitations.

If nothing else, the food he served was of excellent quality, and the conversations they shared were a welcome relief from the mounting frustration of his daily work. 

Hyde was an ever-growing thorn in his side. Javert's men had cornered him twice-- neither instance had ended well. Hyde fought like a demon, left the officers scattered and bleeding, and then vanished like a ghost. Surely that suggested he had accomplices to hide him, but no connection had been identified.

His thick English accent suggested that he'd arrived recently on a ship, but no man matching his description was found in any recorded manifests, and no recent arrivals recognized him as a fellow passenger. He’d even questioned Jekyll on the matter, but the man confessed to having been seasick for much of the voyage from England, and thus unable to partake in the gossip among his fellow travelers. 

Those informants he used among the criminal element had nothing to give him, either. Hyde had a way of looking at people that made him instantly repulsive, even to the basest of their number-- which implied, at least, that he had no allies or cronies to hide him. 

“Have you considered they might not be so tightlipped with you,” Jekyll mused, “if you made yourself somewhat more approachable?”

Javert glared at him. “And what’s that meant to mean?”

“I don’t mean any offense by it, my friend.” Jekyll fixed him with that good-natured smile. “Only that you’re obviously under a good deal of stress. Perhaps you’ll see this case more clearly once you take some time to relax.” 

“I’ll relax once I have Hyde in chains.” 

“Will you, though?” Jekyll asked. “Or will you just find some other criminal to fixate on instead?” 

Javert turned away and scowled at the distant wall. 

“That’s what I thought.” Jekyll offered a sympathetic smile. “Have you considered that you might be more at ease if you were to partake in some pleasurable company? I understand that most of the-- ah, workers-- at the docks are in possession of proper paperwork.” 

“I have no interest in such things,” Javert snapped. 

“Of course. I meant no offense, my friend.” Jekyll’s smile didn’t dim, but it did turn sly. “Perhaps you might ask the mayor instead.”

Javert froze. “What does the mayor have to do with this?”

“Only that he might be more suited to your interests.”

“I have said nothing of the sort!”

“You didn’t have to," Jekyll said soothingly, which only agitated him more. "Has no one else remarked on the way you look at him? We were in a crowded room, you were speaking to me directly, and yet you almost never took your eyes from him. Really, has no one else mentioned it to you?” Javert blanched, and Jekyll’s expression turned sympathetic. “Or– have you avoided being in a room together, so no one else would have the chance to see?”

“I report directly to him,” Javert said, averting his eyes. “We are in the same room multiple times a week.”

“With company? Or are you alone, and free to look at him as much as you please?”

Javert shuddered. How obvious had he been? How indiscreet? “You aren’t to speak a word of this to anyone else, do you understand me? Anyone.” 

Jekyll nodded with that same damned sympathy. “I take it that you haven’t told him, then.”

“It is obscene to have such thoughts about my superior. To act on it would ruin me. Potentially ruin us both. It is–” His voice failed him, and he anxiously straightened his sleeves and smoothed the wrinkles on his coat. When he tried to speak again, the words came dislodged all at once, pouring out of him in a torrent. “I concede to your suggestion that there is something– inherent to the soul that drives us to sin, but if there is a way to remove it, I haven’t found it yet. I have tried to stamp it out. I have tried to rise above it. But it is– inescapable. It drives me to obsession. When I leave it unchecked, it causes me to behave erratically, to draw connections where none exist.”

“Oh?”

“He is not the first man who has inspired such– afflictions in me. But when I think back on that other figure, I see only him. His face, his eyes, his form. And surely, were that man procured and stood side to side with Monsieur Madeline, there would be no similarity at all, except that both were desired and inaccessible.” 

“It seems, then, that it may be affecting your judgment professionally."

"No."

"Perhaps not now, but in time.” 

“No,” Javert said again. “I won’t allow it.”


The storm is still raging when Javert emerges from the washroom. His feet are bare, but he’s all too aware that clean socks will be waiting for him by the door, and that his shoes will be shined and ready beside them. The fact that the housekeeper is gone for the night means Valjean will have done the task himself. If Javert ventures out now, he’ll only get them muddy again. 



“Javert.” And there he is, summoned like a demon at the very thought of his name. “Are you leaving?”



“I’m considering it.” Javert can’t bring himself to look at Valjean’s face, but he can take in enough from the periphery. He’s dressed much as he was before: in shirtsleeves and trousers, his feet bare against fine wood and plush carpet. The hallway is lit where it wasn’t before; apparently he deems the use of lamps worthy for company, and not for just himself. 



“Wait until the storm subsides,” Valjean says. “If you leave before it’s safe, you’ll only come back again. Spare yourself the trouble and rest.” 



Javert sneers. “The guest bedroom is already made up, I take it. Prepared as always.” 



“It is.”



It isn’t the only bed that’s open to him. Valjean keeps his own bedroom door unlocked. The bed, supplied for mayors before him who had entire families to house, is made large enough to accommodate a second sleeper, and Valjean only ever takes up one side. 



Javert hates that he knows that. 



He hates having the memory of Valjean straight-limbed under the covers as though he’s still secured to a wood plank between two other inmates, making those awful little sounds of distress under his breath as he twitches and shakes in the throes of a nightmare. 



He hates how abruptly Valjean wakes when kissed, how immediately he snaps into tension and fear before he consciously relaxes when he realizes it’s Javert looming over him in the dark. As if it’s somehow a relief to have his home invaded and his bedroom violated and his body pawed at by his enemy. It begs the question of just what he experiences during those nightmares, to make that favorable by comparison. 



Javert can only imagine. He has nightmares of his own.


Javert was armed that night. Damn it all, he was armed -- but that made no difference in the end. Hyde was as swift and silent as a phantom, and before Javert was even aware of the threat he was caught from behind, his pistols tossed uselessly down the alley, his arms restrained. Hyde was strong, stronger than any man had a right to be, but especially one of his mean stature, and no matter how Javert struggled he couldn’t break free. 

“Good evening, inspector.” He likely meant to croon into Javert’s ear, but instead his breath came hot and damp against his neck. “Aren’t you happy to see me? I’ve got a present for you.” 

Javert tried to cry out, but something metal was forced between his teeth. He thrashed, tried to dislodge it so he could spit it out, but instead a bitter liquid poured from the lip of the thing and down his throat. He choked and spluttered as some of the foul stuff seeped into his lungs. He bent over double, trying to cough it up, to vomit it out, anything to get it out of him, but Hyde held him in place.

“It’s an acquired taste, I know,” the demon said. “But I think you’ll thank me in time. A few draughts of this and you’re going to be a changed man.” 


“Javert,” Valjean says, before the door of the guest bedroom can shut between them. “In case I don’t see you before I wake--”



He rarely does. Javert makes sure of it. 



“I have a favor to ask.”



Javert entertains the thought of slamming the door shut, but his hand is fixed in place. Valjean doesn’t ask him favors. He did once, when Javert was still his inspector-- always for mercy and leniency when enforcing the laws. Now Javert has no authority to temper with pleading looks and sweet words about second chances.



“You said you tried to leave,” Valjean continues.



“That was my intention. I’ll try again when the weather improves.”



“If you do-- if you quit Montreuil-- I ask that you write to me.” Javert can feel Valjean’s gaze burning on his skin. “Only once. Only to let me know you’ve arrived safely.” 



“One letter,” Javert says, because he has no reason to refuse. Because it is easier to say than the alternative.


Would you miss me?  Javert doesn’t ask him. Or would you be relieved to have me gone?


There's a face that we wearIn the cold light of day-It's society's maskIt's society's wayAnd the truth isThat it's all a facade


Leaving the office to give alms took more time than Madeline preferred, and returning afterward took longer still. Too often he had to remain in the office late into the evening to make up for the lost time, but he had to admit that it was preferable to the alternative. Javert had been right: there was no excuse for encouraging the already vulnerable to venture into the night when a man like Hyde was on the prowl. 

(He and Javert still had disagreements on how that logic applied to himself, but Madeline would take what common ground he could between the two of them.)

It was for that reason that Javert and Hyde were both on his mind when he heard the sound of a struggle. Exertion, and rustling fabric; boots scuffling against the paving stones; a man’s voice pitched into a growl, and another muffled.

Madeline moved as quietly as speed would allow-- too many of his fellow inmates had spoken of that critical moment when they were caught in the midst of a smaller crime, when shock and fear spurred them into escalating a robbery into murder and mutilation. He wouldn’t provoke that kind of violence, not if he could at all avoid it.

And then he turned the corner and saw Hyde and his victim.

Javert.

He was struggling, his hat discarded, his arms pinned behind him, his eyes wild with horror. 

Javert, who was immovable, unshakable. To see him beaten down-- to see him terrified--

Madeline was upon them in an instant.

All thoughts of caution and temperance fled as he grabbed Hyde by the shoulders and ripped him bodily off of Javert.

The little man hung there for a moment, suspended in the air by Madeline’s grip, before he slipped out of his coat and took off into the night. Madeline snarled and gave chase, barrelling after the cretin, ready to drag him to the prefecture himself--

And then he heard Javert scream.

As abruptly as the chase began, it was abandoned. Madeline turned and rushed back to Javert’s side, his thoughts racing ahead of him, half in prayer and half in a litany of fear. 

"Javert!" he fell to his knees and reached for him. "Javert, where are you hurt?" 

Javert gave no answer except for another strangled howl of pain. His limbs twisted and contorted and his spine arched back nearly in half.

Valjean patted at his body, looking for what had caused the wound. If it was a knife, then all Javert's thrashing might twist it deeper into the wound; he'd heard no report from a gunshot, but he might have missed it-- in the dark he could find no bullet holes in his skin or clothes. He tried to feel at Javert's skull for signs of a blow to the head, but his hand came away unexpectedly wet from the vicinity of Javert's mouth. It didn't feel like spittle or vomit or tears, but something thick and viscous as syrup, with a faintly bitter scent.

Madeline looked down. Something had caught his eye before, but he hadn't paid attention. Now he saw it again: a small metal flask with that same syrupy liquid dripping from its mouth.

Poison.

And it was killing Javert.

Another scream was wrenched out of him, quieter than the others, but only because there wasn't enough breath in his lungs to give it volume. In its wake came a small, frightened whimper.

"It's alright, Javert." Madeline pocketed the flask and scooped Javert into his arms. "You're going to be alright. We'll get you to the hospital and they'll get this out of you, do you understand? Just hold on." 

He rose slowly to his feet, careful not to let Javert's thrashing unbalance him. With no evidence of a weapon lodged in his flesh, the greatest danger would be of dropping him, and so Madeline pulled him tight against his chest. 

He knew the hospital well. He'd been there often, donating his money and his time, and he could find his way there with his eyes closed. He only needed to ensure that he didn't stumble on the uneven pavers on the way there. At least Javert had stopped writhing--

He'd stopped writhing. Instead he had gone deathly still, his face hidden in the crook of Madeline's shoulder.

"Javert?" Madeline's voice cracked in alarm. "Javert, wake up! Please! I'm begging you, Javert, hold on-- it isn't far now!"

There was a single sudden jolt in Javert's chest. A moment later: another. It felt like a spasm, or a sob-- it wasn't until several followed in a rapid cascade that Madeline recognized the sound as rattling laughter.

"Look at you." The voice came from the crook of Madeline's shoulder where Javert's face was pressed, but that wasn't Javert's voice. It was low and raw and lilting with an almost singsong quality that Madeline had never heard from his inspector. 

“Look at you, so brave and strong.  My hero.” Something hot and wet dragged its way up Madeline's neck, and in his alarm he nearly dropped Javert.

That was a tongue.

Javert was licking a stripe from the base of his collar to the edge of his jaw. And then he bent his head and did it again.

"Javert," Madeline said, struggling to control the tremor in his voice. “Javert, that man forced something on you. You aren’t yourself.”

“Well, you’re half right on that account.” He licked another stripe, then sucked Madeline’s earlobe between his teeth. 

“Javert, please!"

"Mmmhh. I don't mind hearing you beg. Might like to hear you do it again."

He was twisting and writhing again, but not the way he had been before. A long leg hitched over Madeline's shoulder; an arm looped around his neck. Madeline stumbled backward in an effort not to overbalance, stopping only when he found the cold support of an alley wall at his back. He tried to regain his grip on Javert, but it felt inexplicably like being caught in the coils of a snake: No sooner did he get his hand on one limb than another tightened around him. Teeth sank into the meat of his shoulder, hot and electric-- and where had his cravat gone? When had Javert gotten his shirt open?

He was frozen in place, unwilling to move half from fear that Javert would take a piece of his shoulder off if he were dislodged-- and half for another reason he couldn't explain. A sound was welling in his throat that should have been a groan of pain, but wasn't.

A hand reached between his thighs, and he nearly jumped in shock-- and then burned with shame as he realized he was straining his trousers.

A dark chuckle vibrated directly into his skin, and the teeth withdrew from his flesh-- human teeth, he was almost surprised to find, and not some animal's fangs. There was something beastly about him now.

"Thought you'd like that." The hand pressed harder against Madeline's groin. "I’ve seen the way you look at images of saints sometimes-- at the agony and the ecstasy. Who could fault a pious man for looking, after all? It isn't your fault that it's just short of pornography." 

Javert licked another long stripe up his throat. Madeline shivered, and whispered a prayer for mercy for what he was about to do.

And then he allowed the building moan to escape his throat.

There was another chuckle, low and sensuous, and the hand kneaded his length through the fabric.

"That's it," Javert purred. "Do you know how long I've waited to hear you enjoy yourself? How long I've wanted to watch you fall apart?"

Madeline threw his head back, almost cracking his skull on the bricks behind him, but even that seemed perversely pleasurable. Madeline's hips canted into Javert's hand, and he pressed harder, repositioning himself for leverage.

"That's right." Javert's weight shifted as one of his feet returned to the ground. "That's right, let me feel you. I'll make it good for you. You'll never look twice at another whore. You'll never need anyone but me."

"Javert!" It wasn't meant to come out as a moan, but the other foot had reached the ground and immediately pushed his legs wider apart. "That's not why-- I don't--"

"No, you're too holy for that. Too pure." His hands cradled Madeline's face, his expression twisted halfway between tenderness and disdain.

Madeline wrapped his own hands beseechingly around Javert's wrists. "I'm not."

"Tell me, your holiness-- would I defile you? Or would you leave me sanctified?" Javert leaned in, their lips half a breath apart. "Would you allow me to find out?"

"Yes." Madeline was close enough to taste the bitter poison in the air. "But not like this."

His grip tightened like shackles around Javert's wrists and he twisted. Toulon had taught him ways to fight without leaving a mark on the other man: an ignoble gentleman’s agreement to keep their disputes between themselves, without involvement from the guards. In half an instant he had Javert on his knees, his arms pinned behind his back, bent at the waist until his face was nearly level with the pavers. 

And Javert was  laughing. It was a low, grotesque sound that rattled off the walls and lodged like barbs in Madeline’s chest. 

“By all means!” Javert’s head lolled to one side so he could look at him over his shoulder. “If this is how you want me I won’t complain. Do you know how many nights I’ve dreamed of being impaled on your cock?” 

Madeline shivered, pushing past horror and disgust and  want to cling to a determined calm. He secured both Javert’s wrists in one hand and groped at his belt, ignoring the obscene noises Javert made until he found Javert’s handcuffs. 

For more than twenty years he’d watched men like Javert holding manacles like these, he’d felt them clamped on his own wrists; he knew the mechanisms well enough to open them one-handed and fasten them around Javert’s wrists. The sight of Javert-- a prison guard, a policeman-- wearing his own shackles stirred a messy snarl of emotions in him; the  sounds Javert made upon feeling the iron against his skin only tangled them further. 

These, too, were shoved to the back of Madeline’s mind. This was neither the place nor the time.

“Enough,” he commanded, and it didn’t escape his notice how Javert stilled at his tone. “I am taking you to receive medical attention. You can go on foot, or you can be carried, but there will be no further diversions. Do you understand me?” 

Javert arched his back, wearing a smile that looked entirely out of place on his face. “As  monsieur commands.” 


 Madeline is disappointed to find the guest bedroom empty when he wakes. Not surprised-- not anymore-- but disappointed nonetheless. The bed is made with military precision. Not a speck of litter disturbs the floor. The shaving kit he’s supplied has been used, cleaned, and set neatly aside at the corner of the vanity.  



 Last night Madeline prepared a parcel of foodstuffs that would keep and travel well, bundled in waxed paper with a note indicating that they’re meant for Javert. The note, he’s learned, is essential: Javert adamantly refuses to take anything that isn’t explicitly given to him, regardless of hospitality or implication or habit. He will not resort to theft, even through mistake or misunderstanding. He has never broken any law since the death of the Englishman. Technically not even then.




 It is as much about self-preservation as it is about his strict personal code. Madeline knows that all too well. 



 He pens a short note to his housekeeper, then leaves for his factory. He has business to attend. 


Madeline could not take Javert to the hospital.

The realization lodged between his ribs, twisting with terror and shame. Madeline was wounded. There would be no disguising that: his cravat was gone, his shirt torn, his shoulder bleeding sluggishly and staining his clothes. The nuns would take one look at him and demand to provide treatment, and then they would see the scars, the brands-- and then it would be over. Everything he’d worked for, everything he’d done, would be in ruins.

He couldn’t just leave Javert on the doorstep and flee. His condition was nothing like he’d ever seen, and someone would need to detail the symptoms and circumstances if there was to be any hope of counteracting the poison-- and without warning of Javert’s erratic behavior, they might make the mistake of unshackling him, and then there was no telling what he might do. 

The solution came to him in a flash of inspiration: the visiting Englishman.

Jekyll was a medical doctor and a chemist-- surely he would have some insight into whatever substance had left Javert so deranged. And he had over the course of weeks established himself as somewhat of a friend to Javert, hopefully enough that he would indulge to help the man in this bizarre circumstance, and to keep discretion in order to protect Javert’s reputation. And more perfect still, he was a foreigner: he would have little knowledge of France’s penal system, or the scars that marked Madeline as its prisoner, or of the passport that should have barred him from government office. 

And so Madeline made his way to the home of Madame Romily and her visiting cousin. The going was slow-- for a short while he led Javert before him, but it wasn’t long before the poisoned man gave up cooperating and made a nuisance of himself and Madeline was forced to throw him over his uninjured shoulder and carry him like a sack of grain. Javert was still a nuisance afterward-- he kept up a running commentary regarding his view of Madeline’s backside. His legs, though restrained by Madeline’s arms, apparently had just enough liberty for him to rub himself obscenely against his captor’s shoulder. 

Fortunately Madame Romilly’s home was significantly closer than the hospital, and her portress opened the door at Madeline’s knock-- though she reflexively threw it shut again with a shriek when she saw the disheveled figures who stood on the front step. Through the door Madeline made what skeletal explanations he could, and a few minutes later it opened again to reveal the doctor himself.

The man already looked harried, his clothes clearly hastily thrown on after having been prepared for bed, but when he looked upon his visitors his face paled. 

He made an exclamation in his native tongue that needed no translation, then ushered them inside. 

“What happened?” he asked, hurriedly leading them to a spare bedroom. 

“He was attacked on the street,” Madeline told him. “The man forced something into Javert’s mouth, and since then he’s been--” He gestured helplessly to the man draped over his shoulder. 

A strange, analytical look came over Jekyll’s eyes. “He’s been what?” 

“Not himself. Energetic in a way I’ve never known him to be. Vulgar. Prone to moments of-- hysteria.”

“Hysteria!” Javert protested, writhing out of the momentary stillness Madeline had bribed him into. 

“Set him down over here, Monsieur,” Jekyll said. “Onto the bed.” He helped balance Madeline as he leaned over the bed and slid Javert’s body onto it. Almost immediately Javert tried to spring to his feet, and the two of them had to wrestle him back down. 

“That explains the handcuffs,” Jekyll muttered, drawing back to give Madeline a better angle with which to keep him pinned. “Can you keep him restrained for a little while longer? I have some instruments that might be of use.”

“Do you think you can help him?” Madeline asked. 

“I can do my best. But can you--?”

“I can keep him here as long as necessary. Do what you must. Just, please--”

“I’ll only be a moment,” Jekyll promised, and hurried from the room, taking the candle with him and locking the door behind him. 

It was some reassurance, but not much. Madeline knew all too well that a window would serve as easily as a door for a man desperate to make an escape.

“You won’t leave this room unescorted,” Madeline said, employing that same authoritative tone that had brought Javert to heel before. 

Javert flashed a wide grin. “Make it worth my while.” His hips bucked once, demonstratively, but Madeline had positioned himself to give him none of the contact he was after. Javert’s thighs were pinned between Madeline’s knees, and Madeline was pressing his full weight down on Javert’s shoulders. His back was arched uncomfortably to accommodate his arms, which were still chained behind him. 

“Our previous arrangement didn’t last very long,” Madeline pointed out. 

“I kept my mouth shut in front of that woman, didn’t I?” Javert’s grin widened still. “And all the way into this room. I call that a fair trade for one kiss.” 

Madeline’s eyes flitted unwillingly to Javert’s mouth. It had been forceful, desperate, needy. Before they’d parted, Javert had caught Madeline’s lower lip and scraped it between his teeth, and Madeline hadn’t been able to fully restrain the sound it drew from his throat. 

He could still taste the residue of the bitter tincture on Javert’s tongue. How many times could he kiss him before the poison’s effect spread to him? And what would it do to him? If a man as rigid and upright as Javert could become such a creature, what would it bring out in a man like Madeline? 

Before he could make up his mind, the door opened  and Doctor Jekyll slipped inside, carrying a laden tray. 

“I came as quickly as I could,” he announced, locking the door once again behind him. 

“Wish I could say the same,” Javert muttered under his breath. 

Jekyll set the tray down and produced a handful of leather straps. “Belts from my wardrobe,” he explained. “I have proper restraints in my laboratory in London, but I’m afraid I didn’t think to bring them with me. Still, these should do.” 

Madeline expected Javert to make some insinuations about what Jekyll might be inclined to do with leather restraints, but he remained oddly silent. The only innuendo he made was in the intensity of the gaze he fixed on Madeline as first his ankles and then his wrists were fixed to the bedposts. 

As soon as he was secure, Jekyll set to lighting a set of oil lamps on the table and beside the doors, and for the first time Madeline since the attack, Madeline got a proper look at Javert’s face. It was bizarre: he looked as completely different from the respected inspector he knew as a rabid wolf did from a hunting dog. The bone structure of his face was unchanged, but certain of his muscles were contorted unnaturally, and between those and his uncontrolled expressions, his face seemed to take on a different shape altogether. Something had changed in his circulation that left his face oddly pink in some places and eerily sallow in others, with an almost sickly sheen on the whole. Sweat slicked back his whiskers and flattened his hair, and of course his movements were all wrong-- sinuous and fluid where he had once held himself with sharp rigidity. Even in the same clothes, he looked like an entirely different person. He held Madeline’s gaze while Jekyll tipped a sedative between his lips, and after, until his eyes at last drifted shut.

Once he'd gone entirely still, Jekyll turned his attention to Madeline. “You’re hurt, monsieur.”

“It’s nothing,” Madeline said reflexively. “I’ve troubled you enough for one night.”

“It’s no trouble at all. But I would hate for your wound to become infected.” He lifted a square of gauze from his tray, and indicated the chair. “Sit. You can tell me exactly what you recall.”


 There’s an itch under Madeline’s fingertips when he arrives at the factory, but he has to set it aside. There are notices waiting for him regarding incidents among his workers, and several petitions to have certain among the newer hires dismissed for what he suspects are exaggerated charges-- his foremen call them ill-mannered and crude, and the more established workers resent sharing space with prostitutes and beggars after they themselves were held to such high standards. Some of the reports, unfortunately, are legitimate, and the only way to sort them out fairly is to conduct interviews with all parties involved and mediating those conflicts that he can. It’s tedious in the extreme, and leaves him utterly exhausted, but he made a promise to Fantine and he has no intention of going back on his word. 



 He only finishes three when he hears a familiar sharp rap on his office door. 



 “Come in,” he says, and braces himself as the door swings open and admits his new chief of police. 



 “Inspector Faure,” he says. “I am pleased to inform you that I have not been murdered in the night.” 



 “As am I, Monsieur le maire.” The younger man bows quickly. “Perhaps Javert was frightened off by the sight of us.” 



 “I can imagine why he might be, given the state your men left him in.” An edge creeps into his voice, suppressed during the interminable interviews and rising now to the surface.  



 Faure looks up sharply. “What did he tell you?”  



 “His bruises spoke plainly enough. Tell me, Inspector, exactly what crime did he commit to warrant such a beating?”  



 “He made a nuisance of himself.” Faure drops his gaze like a scolded dog. He’s a young man, promoted to the position through some family connection; he’s amicable enough when things go well, but on matters like these his inexperience shows.  



 “I don’t recall that being against the law,” Madeline asks, sharpening still. “What crime, Inspector?”  



 “Nothing on the books, obviously,” Faure mutters from the side of his mouth. “He makes that very clear when he’s reciting the penal code and handbooks by rote. That’s enough to get anyone’s hackles raised.” 



 “Are you telling me that a man was brutalized on my streets because he annoyed you?” 



 “I didn’t lay a finger on him!” 



 “But once again your men have.” Madeline rises from his chair, his hands still on his desk, his shoulders squared and broad. The expression he wears is still professional, but it does nothing to mask the fury in his eyes. “If your officers cannot endure annoyance  without resorting to brutality, then I am forced to question their fitness for their posts-- and yours.” 



 “You’re one to talk!” Faure snaps. “Half of your factory is manned by thieves and whores--” 



 “My workers do honest work now, regardless of who they were before. Your officers are assaulting my citizens while still in their uniforms. This is not a matter of philosophy.” 



 “Are you sure about that? Maybe we could discuss this further in a salon. Madame Romilly hosts a wonderful one, I’ve heard. Maybe you could even bring your pet lunatic along!” 



 He makes the mistake of looking into Madeline’s face, then, and his expression freezes. His words fall silent and he flinches back, bracing for a blow or a shout or the devil himself. 



 Madeline does not indulge him. He allows the silence to stretch between them into painful discomfort, just daring the inspector to speak. 



 When he doesn't, Madeline returns to his chair.  



 “Control your men, Inspector. Or I will send for someone who can.”  



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


In the first moments after Javert woke, his only thoughts were of the pounding of his head and the foul taste in his mouth. He must have been struck while on duty, he thought vaguely, and immediately set his mind on recollecting the event to include in his report.

All the while his gaze listlessly crawled across unfamiliar wallpaper, on a window, on linens far softer than he’d ever slept upon--

And then he saw the belt around his wrist. 

He’d been restrained. Held down, his wrists unshackled, stretched out almost to the bedpost and then tied with the leather strap. He remembered clearly that he hadn’t struggled-- he’d known it was necessary, that if he didn’t submit to it, the mayor would be displeased.

His blood ran cold.

The mayor.

He’d been hurt, and Mayor Madeline had come to rescue him, and he--

“Oh God…”

“Javert?” There was a scrape of a chair across a carpeted floor, a rustle of clothes, footsteps, but none of that mattered.

“Sweet Jesus,” he whispered. “What have I--”

“Javert? Javert!” Jekyll bent over his bedside. “You’re alright, Javert. Everything’s alright.” 

“Alright!” Javert cried. “Are you insane? Do you have any idea what I’ve done?”

“I do, in fact,” Jekyll said calmly. “Monsieur Madeline explained it to me in full.”

“Oh, excellent!” He was aware that his voice was pitching too high, near manic. “Then perhaps he told you what he plans to do with me. Will he have me arrested directly, or will he dismiss me from my post first?”

“Neither.” 

Javert stared at him, dumbfounded, as Jekyll unfastened the first of the straps. He didn’t hold Javert’s arm, didn’t even warn him to stay still. 

Jekyll turned to work at the second nearest strap, the one on Javert’s ankle, and continued: “He wants you to rest for a few days to recover from your ordeal, and then report to work as usual.”

“You can’t be serious.”

“I am.” The second strap came free, and he moved to the other side of the bed. “He was very insistent that you weren’t yourself, and couldn’t be held responsible for your actions.”

“Did you not-- I assaulted him,” Javert said. “I  bit him!”

“Oh, I saw.” Jekyll flashed a rueful smile. “But he was clear, and I agree: it wasn’t you who did those things.”

“What, was it someone  else’s teeth embedded in his shoulder?” 

“It wasn’t you,”  Jekyll repeated. “You never would have acted in such a way, were you in your right mind. It was an impossible confluence of circumstances, and there’s no danger that it will happen again. The poison has left your system, my friend, and your ordeal is over. Put it behind you.” 


 Javert manages to get some work for himself at the docks loading and unloading the heavy cargo. He’s all too aware that his pay is only a fraction of that given to the other men working beside him, the discrepancy following in the wake of whispers about who he is and what he’s done. They might puff themselves up and call it justice for his crimes, but to him it doesn’t feel particularly just-- it feels like a twinge in his back and a growl in his stomach. 



He can afford a bed or a meal, but not both. There are some places where he can sleep with relative peace, though. There are streets in Montreuil where the murder of a gentleman is nearly a badge of honor-- and it isn’t lost on the people who live here that Hyde hasn’t been seen since that night. They remember too well Javert's tenure as Police Inspector to extend him any kindness, but they respect him well enough not to root through his pockets when he sleeps in the shelter of an alley.  



 He's clearing debris from a small spot beneath an eave when he hears voices raised in a familiar cadence: the men are low and wheedling, with a sharpness in their syllables that indicates a dangling threat; the women responding with a downturned whine to their words as they try to redirect the conversation without the sort of outright refusal that will provoke violence. He knows the voices just as well: three officers of his prefecture and two prostitutes who work out of the building just across the street. 



 He could ignore it. He's sore and hungry and tired, and these people are nothing to him except bitter reminders of what he's lost. He doesn't owe them anything. 



 Instead he raises himself from his work and advances to the mouth of the alley. 



 "Good evening, officers," he calls, leaning against the wall. "Or-- are you officers tonight? Because it seems to me that you're soliciting these ladies' services as private citizens, and yet here you are still in uniform." 



 The policemen turn their attention to him. While they're looking away, the women slink into the shadows, and toward the relative safety of their brothel. They don't get far before one of them is grabbed by the shoulder and yanked back. 



 "Where do you think you're going?" Demands one of the men-- Blanchard. Slovenly, Javert recalls, when it comes to evidence. 


 “Book Three,” Javert drawls, raising his voice.    “Title Two, Section Five, Subsection Five, Point three-four-one.  The penalty of hard labor for time shall be inflicted upon those who, without order from the constituted authorities, and out of the cases where the law directs the seizing of persons charged with offenses, shall have arrested, detained, or sequestered any persons whomsoever.” 


 “Of course,” grunts another of the men. Dumont, whose uniform is in bad repair and whose pockets are lined with bribes. “Knew you’d be around here sooner or later. It was just a matter of time before you showed.” 


 Javert tilts his head. “That one would be in Section one, subsection one: lying in wait.”  


 Blanchard spits on the ground and draws a black sackcloth out of his pocket.  



 Again: sloppy. He would have been better served to grab a flour sack, but he’d decided to snatch an actual executioner’s hood from the prefecture. That belies premeditation. And, of course, murder. 



 Javert suspects he will have no such luck tonight. 



 He heaves a sigh and surrenders to the rushing in his ears. 



 Put it behind him. 


The thought was ludicrous. It was insanity. 

The poison might have passed through him, but it wasn't out of his system. How could it be, when Javert still remembered the little sounds Madeline made when surprised– the heat of his body– the taste of his mouth? 

But he tried, God damn him. He tried. 

He sequestered himself to his flat for two days, as instructed, and in that time he mended and cleaned his uniform, he cleaned and organized his space until it was irreproachable, he read over the penal code until it made his head ache. And when the world stopped tilting when he tried to walk, he returned to his duties at the prefecture. 

Two days later he was required to come to the mayor’s office. He tried to change the assignment with his subordinates– with anyone– but they refused. 

The mayor had asked about him by name. To avoid him would be an act of obvious disrespect. And Javert, after what he had done–

He left early to ready himself. Polished the dust from his shoes, combed his hair, readied his uniform so that he might look the farthest thing from the madman he had been. Still he felt his chest tighten with dread as he climbed the factory stairs to the mayor’s office. 

He was early enough that he expected– hoped– to be kept waiting, but he’d barely rapped at the door when he was called inside. He obeyed promptly and offered a deep bow before he shut the office door behind him. 

Madeline was already on his feet, one hand laid carefully on the back of the chair where he usually sat. The large desk seemed to take up an unnatural amount of space in the room, a physical barrier between them. 

Javert dared a glance toward Madeline's face, just to gauge the severity of his mood, but the mayor’s expression was carefully neutral, shuttered of anything but polite concern. 

He hadn’t been so closed off before, when his head was thrown back, his mouth drawn open, his throat bobbing with each panting breath–

Javert wrenched his eyes to the wall just behind the mayor’s shoulder, his face damningly hot. 

“Inspector Javert,” the mayor said, his tone as politely neutral as his expression. “I’m aware it may be uncomfortable for you to be in this space with me at the moment. I apologize for that.”

Javert nearly spat out a retort at that, but he swallowed it back. He would not be the madman from the other night. He wouldn’t.

He gave a small nod instead, inviting the mayor to continue. 

“If you would prefer future meetings to be conducted elsewhere, or less privately, then I would gladly accommodate. But for this first, I wanted the chance for us to speak freely. As much as possible, at least.”

Javert swallowed another reply. 

The mayor shifted uneasily, but Javert studiously did not follow the movement with his eyes. 

“Are you… well?" he asked. "If you need more time to recover, you are more than welcome to it.”

“That won’t be necessary,” Javert said, once enough silence had fallen that he was sure he wasn't speaking out of turn. “You may rest assured that the toxin has run its course and no longer affects my behavior.”

“It wasn’t only that that concerned me,” the mayor said carefully. “When you were first poisoned, you appeared to be in a great deal of pain.”

“The doctor called it extreme involuntary muscular contraction.” Javert kept his voice flat. It was easier to be clinical about it. “That symptom passed along with the more obvious ones– for which I must express my deepest shame. My actions on that night were–” He struggled to find the words. He’d rehearsed dozens for this moment– reprehensible, abominable, vile– “Inexcusable. I look back on them with deep regret.”

“I forgive you, Javert.” The leather of the mayor’s chair creaked under the curl of his fingers. “And I hope in time you can forgive me for my own misbehavior on that night. I think neither of us conducted ourselves as we hoped we would.” He hesitated. “I would not object if you chose to exclude the particular details from your report of the event. If you feel the need to be entirely thorough, however, you will nonetheless have my full support. I leave that decision in your hands.”

Javert’s gaze flicked involuntarily to the mayor’s shirt, where drape had been disturbed slightly by a bandage under the fabric. “A lack of detail would lead to some confusion in regard to the injury on your shoulder, monsieur, should you elect to press charges.” 

“I don’t intend to.” He seemed to catch Javert’s glance, because he added, “It’s healing quite well, thanks to your friend’s attentions. There should be no permanent damage.”

“That is a– relief to hear.” 

An uncomfortable silence stretched between them before the mayor broke it. 

“Given what’s happened, do you intend to continue leading the investigation into Hyde?” 

Javert stiffened. “If Monsieur believes my fitness to be in question–”

“No, not at all. I have all confidence in you. I merely wanted to know the appropriate person to give this to.” From his pocket he drew a small parcel wrapped in a handkerchief, and set it on the edge of the desk nearest to Javert. “I found it at the scene of the attack.”

Javert only moved as close as necessary to take the parcel and gingerly unwrapped it. It was some kind of steel flask with a flat bottom, only slightly longer than his thumb with a mildly tapered shape. A blue substance stuck to the inside edge, dried to little more than a crust, with some evidence that it had been stoppered before its most recent use. Experimentally he brought it to his nose to sniff at it, and immediately he pulled it away again, suppressing the urge to retch onto the mayor’s carpet. 

He knew that smell. Even days later, the taste of it still lingered in the back of his throat. 


 Javert moves gingerly through the garden. His ankle is merely twisted, not broken (not for lack of effort), but it still sends a sharp pain through his leg with every step.The walk from the alley was hell.



 It won't be much farther, though. A few more yards to the door. Just a few more. 



 He finds the mayor's key in its usual place behind the loose brick and lets himself in. 



 The fires are low, but the air feels warmer here-- more welcoming, more comforting, more safe .  



 A stair creaks underneath an approaching foot. Instinct tells Javert to slink into the shadows until he's sure there's no danger, but his ankle won't carry him that far. 



 So he just stands there as the halo of golden candlelight descends the stairs and washes him in its glow.  



 “Good evening, Javert.” Valjean descends like an angel of mercy, wrapped in the white cotton of his nightshirt. “I didn’t think I would see you tonight.” 



 “Yet here I am.” Javert spreads his arms as best he can without overbalancing, and Valjean’s gaze washes over him, taking him in. Javert’s bad leg is bent to take his weight off the injured ankle, and with his arms extended he must look much like a scarecrow. His ripped, dirtied clothes and snarled hair likely do nothing to discourage that notion, or the smears that have already darkened to the color of rust. Javert is not a handsome man in the best of times, and no easier on the eyes now, and yet Valjean always takes such care looking at him. Once he’s looked his fill, he sets down his candle on a table. 



 “Your clothes,” Valjean says, and Javert strips off his coat, the hood, his braces, his shirt-- this last clings to an overlarge patch of dried blood against his side, and he can feel Valjean cringe as he pulls it off and removes a freshly-formed scab along with it. The layers are tossed haphazardly to one side. He unbuttons his trousers and moves to pull them off, but finds he can’t do that with his unnatural stance. He lowers his bad foot back to the floor and hisses as the bad ankle takes his weight. 



 And then Valjean is looming before him, and tugs Valjean’s hands away from his trousers and to his own shoulders. He bows
, then, to wrap one arm behind Javert’s back and the other beneath the bend of his knees and scoops him up, lifting him as effortlessly as if Javert was a child. 



 Javert’s heart pounds, at once aware of the hard floor underneath him and the absolute certainty that Valjean won’t let him fall. He folds himself tighter against that broad chest and kisses him, tugging at his dark curls to bring him closer, closer-- 



 The slightest shift in Valjean’s grip signals for him to stop, and Javert obediently curls into his shoulder. Valjean begins to move then-- slowly, deliberately, each step calculated not to jostle him-- up the long stair, across the darkened hall, into the master bedroom, and he sets Javert down on the edge of his bed.  



 Valjean kneels, somehow even more majestic as he bends to unlace Javert’s boots and ease them from his feet. With those broad, strong hands he slides Javert’s trousers from his legs and the stockings after them, his smallclothes. Javert’s ankle is swollen to the point of being obvious even in the dim light of the room’s one lantern. Valjean bends to press his lips to the darkening bruise there, so tenderly that Javert feels no pain at all.  



 Javert remembers the first time Valjean saw him like this-- the way his whole being crackled with barely-restrained fury, the way his voice shook with an effort to temper his rage when he took Javert’s face in his hands and asked, “who did this to you?” 



 By now there’s no point in asking-- the answer is always the same. The anger is still burning just under the surface, but Javert can only feel the warmth of Vajean’s fingertips as he documents every new injury. He retrieves a cloth and basin from atop the dresser, and his assortment of bandages and ointments from the drawer beneath it, and kneels again before him.  



 “Time for that already?” Javert tries to infuse desire into his voice, but instead it is awe. “It would be a shame to get me all cleaned up and then have all your work undone.”  



 Valjean presses another kiss to the inside Javert’s thigh. “It’s no hardship.” 



 Javert grins wolfishly at that, and twists his hip to press his firming cock against Valjean’s cheek. “The evidence would suggest otherwise.”   



 The look Valjean gives him contains the patience of a saint and a twinge of exasperation, but he makes no further protest before turning his head and taking Javert’s length into his mouth.  



 After the violence of the night, there is something intoxicating about the softness of his lips around the delicate skin, the laving of his tongue down the length and back up to the head, the mild pressure as he hollows his cheeks, the thrum of an otherwise inaudible moan. Javert watches, mesmerized, as his prick vanishes into that plush wet heat, and he can’t help but to bury his fingers in Valjean’s dark hair-- not to direct him, not to pull him closer, only to give himself something to hold onto, only to feel the tiny bobs and vibrations under his fingertips. Valjean’s large hands slip between Javert’s thighs to appreciate his balls, to roll them over his palms and trace the shapes of his testicles with feather-light touches until he is coming, sweetly, onto Valjean’s waiting tongue.  



 Javert could withstand far greater intensity with a smile-- he has never been afraid of pain, least of all when it’s inflicted by Valjean’s careful hand-- but he knows it won’t come tonight. Tonight he will be petted and pampered as if there’s no creature more precious in Valjean’s world, and until the serum-madness leaves him he will allow himself to believe it. 


So the code that Javert cites here is pulled by the French Penal Code of 1810, which I found here.


 Madeline lies in silence for hours, holding Javert as tightly as he dares until his breathing settles into the shallow patterns of sleep. Madeline tries to quiet his own mind enough to rest, but eventually he gives up on trying to tame it and slips out from between the covers, careful not to wake Javert.  



 He removes the basin of dirtied water and collects what clothes he can from the bedroom floor. The trousers and stockings are set aside for laundering; the boots he tends to himself, cleaning and shining them anew. The rest of Javert's clothes are in the entryway, and he quietly inventories them to make sure he's got them all: shirt and waistcoat, braces, and-- and a rough black fabric he doesn't recognize. Madeline had assumed it to be a neckcloth, but on closer inspection it's all wrong. It looks almost like a torn sack-- or like a hood. 



 He remembers being young, seeing a hanging in the town square, and before the noose had been slipped around the man's neck the executioner had pulled a black hood over his head. 



 He can't be sure exactly how long he stays there before his churning thoughts are interrupted by the creak of an opening door. 



 "Monsieur?" his housekeeper says, not entirely surprised to see him there. 



 "Ah." He crumples the hood in his hands and tries to force a smile. "Fantine. Good morning to you. Is your daughter feeling any better?" 



 “She is, and I’ve brought her back to school.” A self-effacing laugh bubbles out of her. “You must think me such a ninny, Monsieur, to lose my head over an ear-ache.”  



 “Not at all.” The smile grows a little less forced, but no less pained. “You were far more self-possessed than I was the first time my sister’s eldest took a fever. These things are learned in time. I’m glad Cosette is finally in the care of someone who loves her so dearly.”  



 Fantine bows her head, and at last she allows herself to take in the clothes piled at Madeline’s feet, and the rag clenched in his fist. Her hand lights softly on his shoulder.  



 “And the one in your care? How is he?” 



 Madeline crumples tighter against himself. He would like to weep, but once he starts he might not be able to bring himself to stop again.  



 “He is alive,” he says at last. “That is the best I can ask for.”  



 “Then we will simply have to improve his condition to alive and fed,” she says, and bends to gather the clothes. “Come, Monsieur. Let me make you both some breakfast.” 



 He attempts another smile, but this time it doesn’t come. “He should rest.” 



 “Then you can have yours now, and he can eat his while he wakes. I promise I won’t let him leave until he’s downed every bite.”  



 She turns away, and he calls after her, “don’t let him leave, please.” 



 “Monsieur?” 



 “His leg is hurt. It’ll only get worse if he walks on it.” He slowly drags himself to his feet. “You won’t have to keep him for long. I’ll take home what work I can and return as quickly as possible. But please–” 



 She returns and presses his arm with a strength that he cannot fathom from anyone but her. “I won’t let him go anywhere, Monsieur. I promise.”  


A curfew fell over Montreuil, enforced by police patrols to shepherd everyone safely indoors after dark. As soon as the order was signed, notices were printed and posted throughout the town, along with police to recount the details verbally for those who couldn’t read it. 

There was pushback, of course-- Madeline had had his own reservations about giving the order, but they were all outweighed by necessity in the aftermath of Hyde’s attack on Javert. When questioned, he brought to evidence the brazenness of bringing down the town’s chief inspector, and how much less restraint Hyde  might show against the common people of Montreuil. Privately he harbored another fear: Hyde’s serum had taken the most disciplined man Madeline had ever known and made him licentious and coarse. What would it do to anyone else? What would they become– and who might they hurt before they regained their senses? 

He’d had to avoid stating that outright when citizens arrived at his factory office to voice their complaints. By the fourth explanation, he was fairly confident in his delivery, and even thought he might be able to handle the rest with some degree of expediency. 

Then he heard a commotion from the building’s front doors. There were raised voices-- a woman and several men, though he couldn’t make out any words over the burbling chatter of his onlooking workers. He muttered a quick prayer for serenity, then straightened his spine and descended the stairs to the factory floor.

“What is this shouting all about?” he called in that booming register that always seemed to command attention without ever quite rising into aggression. Immediately his workers fell silent, though the source of the commotion remained in full sway. Two of the men in the dispute were his own foremen, the third was Javert, and their opponent was a woman he didn’t recognize. She was dressed in the kind of dress that he’d come to recognize as the uniform of prostitution: brightly colored in a style that might have been fashionable several years ago, but had probably been purchased from a pawn shop in Paris and resold several times over, with a brittle worn quality to it that no amount of washing or mending could quite disguise. Her hair, which must have come loose from its covering sometime during argument, was at that awkward length that suggested it had been cut close to the scalp some months ago (inwardly he cringed, immediately remembering the feel of his own head in those first months after Toulon). 

“That is enough,” he declared, and this time they obeyed. The two foremen shrank back to either side of him. Javert stiffened into parade rest. The prostitute remained where she’d stood, framed in the entryway, heaving rattling breaths with exertion. “Javert, would you care to explain just what is going on here?” 

“Monsieur le maire, this prostitute was trying to gain admission to your factory in order to peddle her wares--”

“That’s not true!” the woman cried. 

“Not another word out of--”

“Enough,” Madeline repeated, and the four shrank back as if he’d brandished a cane at them. Only Javert remained unmoving-- though likely, even a cane wouldn’t have changed that. “You disagree with his report, madame?” 

It was remarkable, watching her gather herself up. Her elbows tightened against her waist, her head bent to turn respectfully to the ground, but her eyes rose to meet his gaze. 

“I never meant to interrupt your work here, Monsieur le maire." Her voice moved oddly through the hole where her two front teeth had been. "But your notices said we’re all to be indoors by sundown, and-- and that can’t happen. Please. I-- the ladies like me-- our customers only come at night, and if they’re barred from the streets, then we can’t work. How are we meant to survive?” 

There was something in the intensity of her stare that made him want to shy away, but he stood his ground. 

“I know it will be a hardship, madame,” he said, falling back to the arguments that had served him with the others. “But I assure you, the curfew will be lifted as soon as Hyde is caught.”

“And how long is that meant to take?” the woman asked. “Your police have been chasing him for weeks already without any change. How many more weeks will we have to go without work? And all the while we still have to pay doctors and grocers and landlords-- how long can we go before they turn us out onto those streets that you insist are too dangerous to walk at night?”

“You speak of hypotheticals,” he said gently. “But the danger of this man is very real. I promise, this is for your own safety.” 

“What do I care for my own safety?” she demanded. He nearly stepped back, and already the other three men were advancing. “If I don’t work, my child will die!”

“Please, settle--”

“No.” Now she looked at him directly, and there was something of the ancient Furies in her stare. “You wouldn’t hear me when your man threw me out of your factory, but you will hear me now. My daughter is sick. The money I send is all that stands between her and death, do you understand me?”

“Control yourself, woman,” Javert growled, “or you’ll be continuing your tirade in a jail cell.”

“Peace, Javert.” Madeline lay a hand on Javert’s arm. He froze with a slight shiver, like a dog straining at prey past the end of its leash. “Madame, I give you my word that I will hear you out, but I think my office would be a more appropriate place to continue this conversation.” With his free hand he indicated the stair, and then continued to his foremen: “Gentlemen, I trust the two of you can bring us back to operation?” and then turned to follow the woman.

“Monsieur,” Javert muttered from beside him. “You can’t be serious.”

“I don’t see why not,” he said. “I’ve given an audience to several citizens with concerns about the policy. There’s no reason why she should be any different.”

“Her profession is enough of a reason.” 

Madeline ignored the remark and ascended the stairs-- and without being prompted, Javert followed behind him, though he didn’t enter the office after Madeline did. He didn’t say a word, only fixed Madeline with a stern look and then stood at parade rest against the railing. Madeline elected to leave the door open and the windows overlooking the factory uncovered; for propriety’s sake, though not only that. It hadn’t escaped him that she was alone in a room with a man twice her size and of substantially greater social standing. The woman who stood before his office looked like she was preparing to go to war, resigned for whatever pain or dishonor a victory would require.

It fell to him to assure her it wouldn't come to that. 

“I thank you for your patience, madame,” he said with a small bow of his head. “I can only imagine how difficult this ordeal has been for you.” 

“Monsieur,” she said stiffly.

He kept a secure distance from her as he made his way to the back of his office. There was a chair for her, but she remained standing, and so he did the same-- careful to keep behind his own high-backed chair, so both it and the large desk formed a barrier between the two of them. He’d had more than enough time to consider those precautions when he’d put Javert in a similar position, shortly after the incident, and they’d served him well enough then. 

“I’d like to discuss the matter of the curfew in more detail, but I think we’ll both think more clearly once the more pressing issue is addressed.” He regretted it immediately when he saw the way her hand tightened into a fist at her side. “You said your daughter needs care. Is she at your home, or already at the hospital?”

“Neither. She lives with an innkeeper and his wife in Montfermeil. I send them money for her care.” A slight tremor entered her voice, but she fought it back with a visible force of will. “But she is ill, and they say they cannot afford to send for another doctor.”

Madeline frowned. “Another?”

“She is sick often.” Her expression hardened. “I know it sounds like a fiction, monsieur, but I swear I’m telling you the truth. They’ve sent me letters, if you want to see them.” 

“I do, in fact,” he said. “After we’ve finished talking, would you go fetch them and bring them back here? I’ll ensure you aren’t turned away this time.” 

“There’s no need,” she said, and pulled a handful of papers from her pocket and set them on his desk. “I’ve brought them with me.”

“I appreciate your foresight, madame.” He waited until she’d stepped back to her safe distance before taking the letters. If they were forgeries, they weren't recent ones: the oldest of the pile was dirty with use and handling from sweaty hands, and it had been folded and unfolded to the point that the paper was coming apart at the creases. The latest, dated to less than a week ago, was in better condition, but only by a matter of degrees. The handwriting between them was consistent, as were the poor spelling and irregular numbers. He read over them all, one after another, and then reread. And then he raised his head to look at the woman. “Madame, may I show these to my associate outside the door?” 

She blinked, confused, but gave a small nod. 

“Thank you. I’ll be just a moment.” He gathered the papers and stepped out of the office, where the inspector still waited. “Javert? Would you read through this for me?” 

The other man took the letters from him without protest and began reading. His expression was already tinged in suspicion, but still Madeline caught the precise moment when Javert read the demanded sum-- the way his eyes widened just slightly, the way his head pulled back in affront. He flipped to the next page and visibly skimmed over its contents until he found another amount, and did the same to the third, and then the fourth.

“You,” he said, advancing up to the threshold of the office and no further. “Are you the Fantine to whom these are addressed?”

“I am.” 

“Are there any missing letters between these?” 

“No, apart from the letters I sent back.” 

“Do you have a record of the size of installments you’re paying? Or the rate of interest?”

She looked perplexed. “What interest? I pay each sum in full when I give my reply.” 

Javert nodded sharply and turned back to Madeline. 

“You agree, then,” Madeline said. 

Javert’s lip curled. “I sign the paperwork when our officers receive treatment at the hospital. There might be some discount at play there, but even then, those prices are a fraction of this.” 

“It is as I feared, then," Madeline said. Fantine wasn’t the first person whose medical bills he’d offered to pay, and it had never amounted to so much.  

“What is it?” Fantine asked warily. “What’s wrong?”

“Madame,” Madeline said, turning back to face her. “It seems that you are being extorted.”

“Oh.” There was no surprise in her tone. Only weariness, and misery. 

“That means you can stop paying these outrageous demands,” Javert said. 

“But-- I have to.” 

“Don't you understand what I'm saying? It’s obvious that all of this is an invention! Clearly your child isn’t sick-- I doubt she ever was. These justifications they're giving you aren't real."

“What difference does it make if it isn’t real?” Her shoulders fell; without the tension of anxiety to hold them in place, there was nothing to shore her up against the weight of despair. “They have my daughter. They’re the ones who decide if she eats, or if she’s forced out into the cold. Even if she isn't sick in this moment, it all comes to the same. If I don’t pay, she dies.”

Madeline stepped forward.

"Very well," he said, and looked her in the eyes. “Then you and I will go to Montfermeil and retrieve her.”


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


"You can't really be planning to go through with this," Javert said as soon as the prostitute had left. In her absence, Madeline had retaken his desk, and had immediately busied himself with a small mountain of paperwork.

"I am,” he said without looking up.

"Just like that! A few hours to settle your affairs for the day and then hire a carriage."

"Essentially, yes." Almost as an afterthought, he jotted down a note and set it aside-- instructions to his secretary to procure said transportation. 

Javert let out a frustrated growl. "For all you know she could be lying! Those documents could be forgeries-- this could all be an elaborate hoax to prey on your better nature!"

"Yes, it could." Madeline inclined his head. "Which is precisely why it must be tonight."

That caught Javert off guard. "I don’t follow."

"You saw her face, Javert. She was shocked that I insisted on joining her. If her story is a lie, then it falls apart the moment we arrive to find no child waiting for her. With another few days' head start, she might have the chance to write ahead to accomplices to properly set the stage. But if we leave tonight, we'll arrive before any letters could.” He dipped his pen in his inkwell. “And if she's telling the truth, I want that child out of harm's way as quickly as possible."

Unless she was a skilled enough fraud to be prepared for this eventuality. Unless she was telling only a partial lie. The minds of criminals could contort themselves into myriad shapes to suit their ends-- but the mayor, in his infinite mercy, wasn’t about to listen to that.

"Do you hear yourself?” Javert demanded. “Either way, you'd be walking into a den of criminals!"

"And that is why I hoped you might come with me." Madeline’s hand stilled over his papers and he finally looked up at Javert with a grim smile. “I believe Fantine is telling the truth. I hope that my company will be enough to encourage all involved to behave civilly.  But I would rather be prepared for any underhanded dealings, should they arise-- and I would feel more secure in your care.”

Javert’s breath caught, and he couldn’t regain it. The room seemed to have emptied of all air. 

“You can’t be serious,” he mouthed. 

“I’ve already made up my mind on the matter,” Madeline replied, and perhaps it was better that he misunderstood.

He felt secure in his care--  his, Javert’s, the imprints of whose teeth even now were etched in the man’s shoulder. Who had physically assaulted him in the street. Who had confessed in so many words that his actions weren’t the result of some temporary madness, but of a long-established pattern of thought. That he hadn’t been cast out for it already strained credulity-- but for Madeline to feel secure enough to march into a den of jackals, protected only by the dog that had turned on its master--!

Rightfully, Javert should go to the prefecture directly and find someone else to send in his place. Someone proven, someone with integrity, someone worthy to be trusted with Madeline’s safety. Someone who wouldn’t be distracted by the wiles of a whore, or by the way Madeline might smile at him when the job was done well. Someone who was driven by duty and commitment to justice, and not by the hope of earning the mayor’s esteem. 

That was the appropriate course of action.

But the thought of someone else going with them was intolerable.

“Very well,” he said, his mouth dry.

Madeline's eyes took on a peculiar brilliance. “Yes?”

"Yes." Javert wet his lips. "I will go with you to Montfermeil.” 


 Javert squeezes his eyes shut before they can drift open. If he lets himself wake up, then he’ll have to move, and he’ll need to deal with the ache and exhaustion of the outside world. Better to stay here: safe and comfortable, caught between soft linens and warm blankets, with his face buried in a pillow that smells of Jean Valjean.  


 Valjean isn’t here, even though it’s his bed. It’s better that way-- better that they not have to look at each other so soon after the madness has passed.  Under its influence, Javert doesn’t have the wherewithal to think about charity or pity or cloying Christian goodness, and he’s free to pretend that Valjean wants any part of this. 


In the light of day, he knows better. Valjean consents to this travesty in the same way he would consent to wearing a hair shirt and crawling on his knees to Jerusalem: as an act of contrition, as one more miserable step on the road to redemption.  



 Javert throws off the covers and sits up. The bed, with all its warmth and softness and pleasant smells, is suddenly unbearable. He can’t stay here. He never should have come here-- never would have, had he been in his right mind.  



 His foot hits the ground and a lance of pain shoots up his leg.  



 His ankle. Of course. It’s wrapped now, but the long walk here probably did the joint no favors. He grimaces and forces himself to stand, whispering profanities under his breath as he bends his body to his will. He tears off the borrowed nightshirt and hurls it aside, then collects the fresh clothes waiting for him on the dresser and yanks them on with particular violence. He limps to the bedroom door and throws it open and swears, louder, when he finds Fantine already standing on the other side. 



 “Oh good,” she says, unmoved by his building fury. “You’re awake. I have breakfast ready for you downstairs.” 



 “I don’t want it,” Javert snaps, and tries to shove past her.  



 She sidesteps him easily. “Maybe not, but you’ll eat it all the same. You’ve missed too many meals to go refusing them when they’re offered to you.” Her tone is absolutely insufferable-- stern and unafraid and a little annoyed, like he’s a child throwing a tantrum. “Now take this-- I could hear you limping from downstairs.” She thrusts a walking stick into his hand, and he takes it with the same petulant obedience with which he follows her to the kitchen. His mother used to talk to him that way. Maybe that’s why he lets himself be pushed around by her: some instinctive obedience to maternal authority (though it disregards the fact that he's at least fifteen years her senior, as does she). 



At least it’s more bearable than what he gets from Valjean. 



 He eats what she puts in front of him (far too much, as usual, with overgenerous portions of sausage and eggs) and listens to her chatter as she makes preparations for Valjean’s next meals.  



 “Cosette says hello, by the way,” she tells him. It’s to be expected-- apparently Cosette sends well-wishes to him every day, even if he isn’t around to receive them-- but it still leaves an odd churning in his stomach to hear from her.  



 That’s one thing he did right, at least, even if he only had a small part in it.  



 “How is she?” He tries to sound gruff and fails miserably.  



 “Better, today,” she says, and at his look, adds, “She was acting strangely, before. She was in pain-- I could see it in her eyes-- but she wouldn’t say a word about it, tried to pretend nothing was wrong at all. That was the worst thing, I think-- she could have broken a bone, or been sick, or dying, and she would have suffered in silence forever if I hadn't noticed.” 



 Javert stiffens. “Did you identify the cause?” 



 She nods with a weary smile, and he can see the false teeth Valjean bought for her. “I brought her here and Monsieur found it out right away, just by watching her. He had me put a warm compress on it and then he went immediately to the druggist for the tonic that always helped his sister’s children. It’s working beautifully.” 



 “Good.” He swallows. Valjean has always had a way with children. “That’s good.” 



He swallows again and tries to pull himself to his feet, but immediately Fantine is right there. 



 “And what are you doing?” 



 “Leaving.”  



 “No, you are not.” She pushes down on his shoulders and forces him back into his chair.  



 He scowls at her. “I’ve finished your food, haven’t I?”  



 “Yes, you have. Which is why you’re going to help me with the dishes.” A clean dishcloth lands on the table before him; apparently she had this planned. “I’ve got enough to do, washing them all. The least you can do is dry them.”  



 He deepens his glare, but she’s unmoved.  



 “Don’t bother with any of your dirty looks, Javert. They don’t work on me anymore.”  


The first hour in the carriage was painfully awkward. Madeline kept trying to discuss strategies for mitigating the damage of the curfew, but Fantine kept losing track of her responses mid-sentence, her eyes drifting to Javert as though he might leap across the enclosed space and tear out her throat with his teeth-- or, perhaps more accurately, to beat her half to death with his truncheon. It only seemed to stop when Javert averted his eyes to the window, apparently sparing her from the worst of his glare. Even then, he couldn’t help a few biting comments at the strategies she and the mayor came up with. Bad enough that Madeline was a bleeding heart-- even  he would hemorrhage if he enacted half the plans they were entertaining. 

A mass hiring spree at his factory, with instructions to turn away no one who asked for a position-- a freeze on firing for any reason without his direct order, with interviews to fully explain the situation-- pay raises for every employee on the factory floor. And when Javert pointed out that he would be operating at a loss, Madeline insisted that he’d pay the deficit from his own pocket. 

The man was going to drive himself into the poor house. 

“And what are you going to do when you run out of customers?” Javert muttered at the window. “With all this new productivity, it won’t be long before your rosaries are in the hands of every Christian in France.” 

Which only got them flinging about ideas about some kind of contest for new designs, with cash prizes and the promise of shared profits for anyone who could come up with a successful new product. Javert could practically hear the light sparkling in Madeline’s eyes. He almost turned to see it for himself, but stopped before he could intrude further on the conversation. Clearly this was  their committee. He was merely acting as the chaperone. 

He turned his attention to what aspects of his investigation he could continue from inside the carriage. He'd already spoken to every chemist and pharmacist in Montreuil; several of them had similar flasks to the one used by Hyde, but none of them had been able to identify an exact match. Still, several of them had catalogues of products from the suppliers who sold them their equipment and he was digging through these now, poring over every dimension and angle listed in the descriptions. It was irritating, detailed work that was bound to make his head hurt even in ideal conditions; with the bouncing jolt of the carriage, with Madeline and that woman carrying on, it was a peculiar variety of Hell, but at least it gave him something to do that wasn't glaring at the two of them.

As night fell outside the carriage, the single lantern inside their space turned the windows into mirrors, and he found he was able to watch his two fellow passengers in the reflection. Madeline seemed more human now than Javert had ever seen him: he was leaning toward Fantine, his face catching the light as he sketched out his absurd visions for some perfect new world. She, too, seemed to have come alive– not with the painted-on enthusiasm of a whore, or the reckless ferocity of a cornered lynx, but with a brilliant energy of her own. Her face was animated; she spoke with her hands, which had abandoned her nervous habit of tugging at the shawl around her shoulders. Her face was still etched with hardship and care, but she might have been pretty, he supposed, when lit up this way. 

Madeline certainly didn’t refrain from smiling at her. 

Javert folded his arms over his chest and hunched down lower in his seat, and pretended not to see.


 “Silver,” Javert says flatly.  



 “You heard me,” Fantine replies.  



 “Has Valjean actually entertained company here? Apart from the two of us, and your--" He waves his hand. "Household?" He has only a passing familiarity with the old spinster who lives with Fantine and watches Cosette while she works. He knows that the old woman isn't aware of the nature of his condition, though, or Valjean's identity, and so he has no need to look into her further.




 “Not recently, no.” 



 “And is he expecting any in the near future?” 



 “I’m his housekeeper, not his secretary,” she says. “But that doesn’t actually matter, because that isn’t how silver works. It’ll tarnish if it isn’t polished regularly, and I won’t have him embarrassed if he’s caught unawares.”  



 “And it’s pure coincidence that this has to happen now. While I’m here.” 



 “Not a coincidence at all,” she says. “It’s tedious work that I don’t want to do, and you’re always grousing about not wanting handouts– though I’m sure Monsieur would be happy to give them to you, if you’d rather not work for your food.”  



 Javert glares. “Of course you only give me that choice after I’ve finished eating.” 



 “Of course.” With a cheerful flick of her wrist she drops the polishing cloth in front of him.  



"I don't come here for his charity."



A queer look crosses Fantine's face then, visible for just a moment before she can smooth it away. "Of course not."




Javert's eyes narrow, and then widen as realization dawns on him. "You can't be serious." He grimaces in disgust. "His charity? Really?"



"I've already told Monsieur, I only know that the pamphlets exist, not who makes them. But that seems to be the popular euphemism lately." 


"Vulgar," he mutters, and tries not to give any consideration to the metaphor. Valjean has always been vigorous in his almsgiving, after all. He tries to shake the image out of his head and turns his attention back to the chore at hand.  After a moment of studying  the collection of flatware and goblets that have been amassed on the table before him, his glare turns into a frown. 


 “You’ve forgotten the candlesticks,” he says. “The ones on the mantel.”  



 “I haven’t forgotten them. Monsieur insists on taking care of those himself,” she says. “They aren’t part of the house's furnishings– he brought those with him when he came to Montreuil. Their value is mostly sentimental.”  



 “Sentimental,” Javert repeats, incredulous. He’s no judge of craftsmanship, but he’s caught enough thieves to know what they would look for in a prize. “Do you have any idea how much even one of those is worth? Let alone a matched pair?” 



 “It’s a very strong sentiment.”  



 She could have left it there. She could have walked away to clean the fireplaces and fill the lamps or whatever it was she did all day, and left him in peace, but she can’t leave well enough alone. 



 “You know that isn’t all he feels strongly about.”  



 “Don’t,” Javert warns her. 



 “You don’t see what he’s like when you’re away. He worries for you.” 


I’m sure he worries plenty, Javert thinks bitterly. He never knows when he’ll turn a corner and find me there. 


 Javert bares his teeth at the silver and grabs a fork. 



 “How many times will he find you beaten half to death, Javert?” 



 “As many times as it takes for it to stick, apparently.” He attacks the fork with the cloth as if it’s committed a crime against France. “Or until I find a way to leave this godforsaken place.” 



 Fantine frowns. “Not quite so forsaken anymore, I think.” 



 “Of course you do,” he mutters. “Your life has only improved since–” He growls. “You haven’t killed anyone.”  



 “No, I haven’t.” Finally she rises to do her work, but not before fixing him a wry, false-toothed smile. “But not because I didn’t want to.”  


Fantine burst from the carriage almost before it came to a halt.

"There it is, monsieurs," she said, nearly vibrating with nerves as she led them toward The Sergeant of Waterloo. The inn was crowded for the dinner rush, and it seemed impossible to make out any one figure in the hungry crowd. Javert swept over them, privately noting a list of code violations-- not that he could do much about them this far from his jurisdiction, but perhaps there might be time to stop by the prefecture--

Fantine uttered a cry, and all thought gave way to action.

She showed no sign of injury, but her arms were pulled tight against herself, one hand clapped over her mouth, the other wrapped around her chest like she might fall to pieces. Her eyes were fixed on a tiny figure on the far side of the room.

It was a child-- dirty, thin, and struggling with a broom that was far larger than she was. She’d wrapped half her little body around it in an effort to gain some leverage, but despite her best effort she made slow progress. 

“Are you not done yet?” snapped a burly, sour-faced woman, and the child clung tighter to the broom as if to hide behind it. “Don’t think you can get out of doing your chores by dragging your feet. You’ll be here ‘till it’s finished, do you hear me?”

“I hear you, Thenardier.” Fantine crossed the room with determined strides. Gone was the temerity of shock, and in its place was a mad ferocity. “How dare you speak to her so? How dare you-- I trusted you with my daughter’s care--”

“You foisted a hungry mouth on us, you mean,” the other woman said. “The miserable creature is eating us out of house and home-- who was the father, Tarrare?” 

Fantine shook with rage. “You think her being hungry justifies you using her as a slave!” 

“Don’t see how else we’re to make up the difference, do you?” Thenardier asked. “You certainly aren’t paying it.” 

“I’ve given you every sou I have!” 

“And that makes you a martyr, does it?” Thenardier sneered. “All the more reason to teach her the meaning of hard work-- maybe if we beat some principles into her, she won’t grow up to be as lazy as her mother.” 

Javert felt her spring, but she didn’t get far. His hand clamped down on her shoulder, his other on her hand-- which was curled into a claw, quite possibly meant to rake down the other woman’s face. 

“Let go of me,” Fantine hissed. 

“You’re playing into her hands,” Javert muttered into her ear. His eyes were on Thenardier, who watched with unveiled satisfaction. “The law has very few protections for you. None at all, if you assault this woman.”

“What makes you think I’ll stop at assault?”

“I’ll take that as a rhetorical question.” Javert tightened his grip, just in case. “And I’ll remind you that threatening murder is  also a crime. Don’t give her any charges to use against you.”

Madeline stepped between the two of them and Thenardier. 

“Madame,” he said with a politician’s tact. “Am I correct in understanding that this woman owes you money?”

“She does.” Thenardier’s pose changed as she looked him up and down; her shoulders lost some of their rigidity, her neck that warhorse’s arch, her arms unfolding so she could rest one hand on her chin. It stood to reason, after all: Madeline was dressed as a mayor and a businessman, with his starched shirt and chain of office glinting over an elegant waistcoat. 

“Perhaps we can settle this amicably, then,” Madeline said. “Just what is the amount?” 

“Oh, I couldn’t say, monsieur, off the top of my head.” Her tone had turned syrupy. “I’d need a chance to look over my books before I could give you a figure.”

“Very well.”

Her eyes raked over him again, this time lingering over his broad shoulders, his thick arms, his soft eyes.

“Oh, but it’s so busy now, what with the rush and all,” she gushed. She smoothed one hand over her apron in what was probably meant to pass for a fidgeting gesture, but it drew attention pointedly in the direction of her thighs. “I couldn’t possibly be able to do it until things have slowed down some… Unless monsieur would like to come to the back with me and… help?” She tilted forward slightly-- just enough to make her breasts strain at the confinement of her shirt, and show off her cleavage to maximum effect. 

Perhaps letting Fantine loose wouldn’t be such a travesty after all. This woman would be well served by some light maiming. 

“I would hate to interrupt your work,” Madeline said firmly. “I’ll wait. And in the meantime, the child can spend time with her mother.”

He caught Javert’s eye then, and Javert released his grip on Fantine. She moved slowly, timidly toward the child, who’d gone as still and silent as a trembling fawn. 

Javert averted his eyes from the reunion, and from the look of pained tenderness on Madeline’s face as he watched them. His own gaze was fixed on Thenardier, silently daring her to protest. When she finally slunk away to attend her patrons, he readjusted his position slightly, taking up a post with his back to the wall so he could keep an eye on the entire room at once.

More than a few eyes were on Fantine, still clothed in the unmistakable attire of her profession. One man slunk forward, and immediately Fantine stiffened, her knuckles growing white around clenched fists.

Javert stepped into the man's path. "She isn't available."

The man grunted. "What are you, her pimp?"

Javert's eyes flashed down his body and up again. His shoes fit poorly, but were too well-maintained to have been bought from a pawn shop. It didn't constitute evidence of theft on its own, but given the nature of this creature, more concrete proof would reveal itself if he made a search. A bagnard in the making, no doubt. Javert wouldn't be remiss in dragging him to the prefecture, but he had orders to stay here.

"A pimp might only kill you," he said, lowering his voice to a growl. "Disturb that woman, and I can make you wish you were dead."

The man puffed up as if to meet the challenge, but then he caught Javert's eyes and he went pale.

"Fine," he muttered. "Keep her for yourself."

He slunk away, muttering curses under his breath, and Javert returned to his place at the wall. Fantine cast a grateful glance in his direction, and he gave her a small nod in reply.

He'd witnessed his own mother being propositioned too many times; there was no need for this battered child to be subjected to the same.

Fantine wasn't the only one subjected to uninvited attention under his watch. While the mother sat with her daughter, the innkeeper kept circling back to Madeline, her dress somehow pulled tighter over her bosom with every return-- though on a few occasions she was substituted by a wiry man with an oily air who apparently was her equally shameless husband. And worse, because they had actual business with Madeline, Javert couldn't deflect them with threats and glares like he could the others.

After the fifth proposition, Madeline sidled up to Javert. 

“I need to step outside,” he said quietly. “Will you stay here?”

“I should stay with you.” Javert’s eyes swept over the room again. He could count a dozen scoundrels and outlaws without an effort. “This isn’t Montreuil. There won’t be just one dangerous man on these streets after dark.” 

“I can handle myself for a short while.” He nodded at the mother and child. “Fantine’s mind is occupied, and that leaves her vulnerable. Don’t let these people take advantage of that.” 

“Whatever happened to all your faith in human virtue?”

“I still have it,” Madeline said. “People will be as virtuous as circumstances will allow them to be. But here? A place like this would crush the goodness out of a saint.” He leaned in closer. “Please, Javert. You’re the only person in this building I trust to keep them safe.” 

Javert suppressed a shiver. “Go. But don’t take risks. If you aren’t back within an hour, I’ll come looking for you.”


As Javert understands it, Valjean had chosen to forego a housekeeper before Fantine. Left to his own devices, he only makes use of his bedroom, his office and the kitchen, with the rest of the appointed house standing empty and shut off to the world.



Certain conflicts between Fantine and the factory foremen coincided with Javert's own fall from grace-- and suddenly Valjean found himself with the opportunity to extend his charity in two directions at once. To Javert he offered the whole of his home: a comfortable bed, roaring fires, clean clothes, warm meals. As he insisted on providing Javert better than the acetic conditions he himself settled for, he required the assistance of a housekeeper-- and thus the position was offered to Fantine. 



She's admittedly an asset to Valjean's house; anyone else might be prone to spread gossip about the secretive mayor and his irregular houseguest, but she is well acquainted with the value of discretion. She even insists on referring to him exclusively as Monsieur, to avoid ever slipping into speaking his true name. (That Javert calls him such exclusively is easily disregarded as the quirk of a madman.)



She is aware of Javert's condition, but oddly, she's never expressed fear of his madness. Even on those occasions when she opens the door to him in the throes of his serum-madness, she's expressed more concern for him muddying her freshly-mopped floors than for her own safety. Indeed, she seemed to fear him more when he was still an inspector for the police.



He was harsher toward her, then.



But that was before she came under the mayor's protection. That was before Javert had been forced to pay attention to her, not as a future perpetrator, but as a potential victim to be guarded, exposed and vulnerable in a world that meant her harm.



And that was before he came to understand the way she had clung to lawfulness and righteousness, sacrificing every scrap of comfort and dignity she had, while being victimized by villains of the highest order. 



Maybe he feels some kinship with her, there. 


For most of that hour, Javert watched the entirety of the inn’s main room, but his eyes kept returning to the man Thenardier. He’d plastered himself to a grubby window, twitching and intent like a cat preparing to spring. All at once he stormed toward the kitchen-- and likely, to a back door. 

Javert stepped close to Fantine. 

"Madeline isn't back yet," he muttered, so the child in her arms wouldn't hear. "I'm going to find him."

"I'll go with you," she began, but he shook his head. If she left Cosette unattended, there was a significant chance the girl would be spirited away before they returned; if they tried to take Cosette with them, they would surely be accused of kidnapping.

"Anyone who can waylay a man like Madeline isn't someone you want near your daughter. Stay here-- I won't be away long." He cast her a sidelong glance. “Don’t let anyone bait you before I get back.” 

He would be too obviously out of place in the kitchen, and so he slipped out the front door and dipped immediately into the shadows. Footsteps approached, and Javert caught the uneven gait that he’d come to associate with convicts: the slight limp that came from years of dragging an ankle chain. Baring his teeth, he crept closer to get a better look-- and instead found Madeline approaching through the darkness, carrying a large package in one arm. 

He seemed to be deep in thought, his gaze turned inward, his expression tender, and not for the first time, Javert’s breath caught at the sight of him. 

And then he spotted a flicker of movement. A shadow dislodged itself from the other wall. A flash of steel caught in the moonlight as a knife was drawn. 

Blood rushed in Javert’s ears. For a moment his blood ran ice cold, and then an awful, hellfire heat rushed through him.

He sprang from the shadows with a snarl. Both men jumped, both Madeline and Thenardier, the latter dropping his knife in his surprise. Unaware of the other, Madeline stepped forward, blocking Javert's pursuit.

“Javert?” he asked, and came closer still. “What are you doing out here? I asked you to wait inside with Fantine.” There was something wrong with his tone. He’d gone pale-- not the sudden pallor of a shock, but a slow, creeping dread that dragged at his features. 

Javert tore his gaze away from him and peered into the dark, but there was nothing there. Thenardier had vanished into the shadows, leaving only his knife behind. With a hiss, Javert kicked it deeper into an alley. 

“Javert?” Madeline asked again, slowly, carefully, as if he was approaching a wounded beast. “Are you well?” 

“He’s out there!” Javert spat. “Didn’t you see him? He was right behind you!” 

The little color that remained now drained from his face. “Hyde? He was here?”

“The innkeeper, you ninny!” Javert grabbed at Madeline’s lapels and yanked him close. He needed him close-- close was the only place he’d be  safe.  “He was right there! Lurking in the dark like an assassin, ready to rob you and leave you for dead. God in Heaven, what were you thinking, telling people you had money and then going off on your own? He could have killed you!”

“Alright,” Madeline said softly, steadily. “I hear you, Javert. You don’t need to shout.” The hand not clutching the box settled on Javert’s chest. 

“Do you have any idea--”

“Yes, I do.” That hand pressed against his sternum, large and warm and soothing. “But see? I’m not hurt. Whatever he was planning, you frightened him off. It’s alright. We’re safe, do you see?” 

“For now!”

“For now,” Madeline agreed. “So let’s get back inside.”

“In that stinking pit?” Javert demanded. “That’s his lair. The moment you turn your back he’ll be there to put a knife in it.” 

“No, he won’t,” Madeline said. “Because you won’t let him, will you?”

“Never.”

“But Javert, at this moment a young woman and her child are unprotected in a place full of people who mean them harm. They need need us to be there with them.” His hand rose to Javer’s cheek. “We’re almost finished here. And as soon as we are, as soon as they’re safe, we can go. Can I trust you to watch over them for just a little while longer?”

That didn’t make sense-- of course he could. That was what Madeline had instructed him to do. What Madeline needed of him. He would do anything for Madeline.

He gave a small, confused nod. 

“Thank you,” Madeline said. And abruptly, but with all the gravity and solemnity of a sealed contract, he kissed him.

Not gonna lie, I kind of want to do a little side story about Javert tracking down the author of "The Mayor's Charity" pamphlets.

Fun fact! Tarrare (1772-1798) was a Frenchman with some kind of really bizarre medical condition that left him constantly, ghoulishly hungry. He's interesting to read about, but maybe don't if you're at all squeamish about body horror or cannibalism.

Fantine's roommate is Marguerite, an impoverished spinster and the only one in the book who shows her any kindness before the thwarted arrest. I like the idea of Fantine reaching out to pull her out of poverty when she escapes it herself. Also, working and raising a kid by yourself is hard, even when you have a saint for a boss.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



 The last of the silver is polished to Javert’s satisfaction, and he finally draws himself to his feet, leaning heavily on the table to keep weight off the ankle. His steps are ginger as he makes his way to the entrance hall, taking advantage of the ease while he still has it.  



 It’s easier to walk using the stick, but he has no intention of taking it past the threshold of the house-- it was offered for him to borrow here, and no more than that. Any further permission would have to come from Valjean directly, and he won’t return for several hours yet. 



 At least, that’s what he assumes, right until the moment that footsteps sound on the landing on the other side of the door. Javert doesn’t have the chance to flee before a key turns in the lock and it opens, revealing Jean Valjean, one hand still on the door, the other holding a briefcase. 



 “Javert.” His brows are high, his expression surprised but guarded.  



 Javert shuffles back to give him the chance to pass. “You’re back early.” 



 “Yes. I--” Valjean hesitates. “Were you leaving?”  



 “He was not,” Fantine declares from the top of the stairs, a bundle of linens gathered in her arms.  



 “Yes, I was.” Without another word he makes for the door, but Valjean’s hand catches his arm.  



 “Javert, please.” His hold is gentle-- always so damnably gentle-- but there’s a strength just barely restrained under the surface. If Javert tried to break his grip, would Valjean let him? “You need to rest your leg. Stay here-- at least until it’s had a chance to heal.”  



 “I can rest it elsewhere.”  



 “But not indoors,” Fantine points out. “Or have you found a flat somewhere that you neglected to mention?” 



 “You stay out of this,” Javert snaps.  



 “Javert.” Valjean steps close enough that Javert can smell his beard oil, which adds even more unnecessary distractions to the conversation. “I don’t know what you remember, but last night’s attack was-- different.” His grip tightens, almost painful in his anxiety. “Don’t go back out there. Not until you’re well enough to--” He struggles with the words. 



 “Well enough that I won’t make it easy for them?” Javert asks, just to watch him flinch. The madness wouldn’t let him surrender to such men, any more than it will let him walk into the sea. No matter what happens it will rise up to save him, and then it will bring him right back here.  



 “Please, Javert.” They aren’t just empty words-- he’s 

begging

, and that’s something Javert can’t stand.  



 “Fine,” he growls, yanking off his coat and throwing it at the hook. It misses, but he refuses to turn to pick it up-- let Valjean get it, if he’s so concerned. “A week. No longer.” And he hobbles up the stairs, toward the room that he refuses to call his own.  


The ransom went quickly after that-- too quickly for Javert to follow, beyond the endless refrain of the innkeepers piling on imaginary debts and Madeline adding them to the total without argument. Most of Javert’s attention was fixed on Fantine and Cosette as the girl fawned over the doll Madeline had given her. Fantine kept looking up at him with a strange expression on her face.

"Were you hurt?" she asked, oddly, when he took up his post at her side. "You look--" But she discarded the thought unfinished, and urged Cosette closer to him.

The other patrons of the inn, too, fixed him with queer expressions, but they hurriedly looked away when he cast a glare their way.

When the Thenardiers finally ran out of fees to impose, Madeline produced a handful of bills and practically threw them at the pair, and then shepherded the other three out into the night.

“This way,” he said, trying to hide his tension and failing badly-- most likely expecting Thenardier to make another attempt on him. “I’m told there’s a more reputable inn not far from here.” He ushered Fantine and Cosette ahead of him, and Javert took up the rear, searching intently for any sign that they were being followed. But no other figures emerged, and they reached the second inn without mishap. 

Madeline rented two rooms– individual rooms, with locks on the doors, and gave one key to Fantine.

“I know it's late,” he said, “But the innkeeper agreed to make something if you or Cosette feel hungry.” He crouched before the little girl, who hid shyly behind her doll. “There won’t be any more hungry days for you, mademoiselle. You’re going to eat your fill every night for the rest of your life. I’m going to make sure of it. And tomorrow, the four of us are going to have a magnificent breakfast together, alright?” 

She let out a tiny giggle, and pressed her smile against the doll’s curls. 

“But first Javert and I must bid you a good evening. We’ll see you again in the morning.”

He stood back and watched Fantine scoop the child up into her arms and carry her into their room. He waited until they disappeared behind the door before turning at last to Javert. 

“Well,” he said, and an odd tension bled in his voice. “Shall we adjourn?”

He led the way to the second room, with Javert following at his heels. 

The room was small, as these always were, and sparsely furnished, lit only by the stars and yellow-tinged streetlamp outside the window. 

“A single bed,” Javert observed. 

“Yes.” Madeline sounded strange. But then, he was distracted with unknotting his cravat. “Would you find it agreeable if we didn’t bother with the lamps? It’s already quite late as it is.”

“Very well." Most nights Javert went to bed without bothering with lights anyway-- the glow of streetlamps filtering through the window was more than enough for his purposes, and more was an unnecessary indulgence. "Shall I take the chair?” 

Madeline turned then, abruptly. “The chair?”

“As already established: a single bed. I would pay for my own, but I didn’t anticipate this when I planned to come, and my funds on hand–”

“But you– you don’t–?” Even in the dark, confusion was obvious on Madeline’s face. He stepped closer, then– improperly close– and peered into Javert’s eyes. “You– you look more like yourself now, than you did before.” 

“Like myself?" Javert frowned. "You’re not making any sense. When was I not–”

And then a dozen indiscrepencies claimed his attention all at once, all the seeming randomness connected by a single awful thread.

“No.” He stumbled back, putting space between them. “No, I wasn’t–”

When danger arose, Madeline hadn’t asked about Thenardier or any of the dozen other foul creatures they had encountered that night, but Hyde.

“He wasn’t there,” Javert said. “I would have seen him if he’d showed his face. I would have recognized him. He wasn’t there.”

Afterward Madeline hadn’t seemed concerned about an attack so much as keeping Javert calm, coaxing him back inside, urging him to behave himself like he was soothing a drunkard, or a lunatic–

“Javert–”

And then he paid for that cooperation with the price Javert had charged the last time: a kiss.

“It’s out of my system,” Javert insisted, but even in his own ears it sounded like pleading. “Jekyll said it was out of my system. It’s gone.  It’s supposed to be gone.” 

And then he’d rushed them here, secured Fantine and the girl in another room, safe behind lock and key–

And he’d brought Javert to a room with one bed. 

Bile curdled in the pit of his stomach.

“Maybe it is,” Madeline said--kindly, placatingly. “It was dark, and I was on edge. It could be what I thought I saw was only a trick of the light.”

Except it wasn’t only Madeline who’d seen it. Everyone in the inn had looked at him strangely when he’d come back inside. Fantine had even remarked on it. And he hadn’t questioned it– not their looks, not the kiss, not the strange way Madeline had spoken to him. It had seemed, in the moment, perfectly reasonable. 

"Javert-- Javert, please--" Madeline reached for him, and Javert wrenched himself away further still. He needed to get out of here-- he couldn't be here with Madeline, what if he hurt him again, what if he--

"I can wake the innkeeper," Madeline said. "You'll have your own room for the night, and--"

"No," Javert said reflexively. A moment later his mind caught up with his instinct in a new wave of horror. "No, you can't-- I can't be left alone. If it happens again--" Oh God-- "The jail. I need a jail cell."

"And what do you intend to tell the police when they ask about your choice of accommodations?"

A hysterical laugh burst from Javert's throat. "What else? That I've gone mad."

"No, Javert." Madeline came closer again, and this time there wasn't anywhere left for Javert to flee. His back was already flat against the wall, and he could only shudder when Madeline took his face between his hands. "Tomorrow we'll return to Montreuil, and you'll go back to Jekyll, and he'll find whatever he missed before and treat it. Until then, you are going to stay here with me, and I will see to it personally that you don't leave this room."

Javert couldn't look away. "And if I hurt you?"

"You won't."

"And if I do?"

"I accept full responsibility for anything that happens here tonight. I can give that to you in writing, if you'd like."

"Why?" Javert demanded, hysterical. "So I'll still have it if I kill you?"

Madeline bowed his head and mouthed what must have been a prayer. When he looked up again, his gaze was gentle but firm. "What can I do-- short of locking you in a cell-- that would make you feel safe to be here tonight?"

Javert swallowed. The weight of Madeline's hands against his face was oddly soothing, despite everything. He focused his attention on it, on the warmth of him, the steadiness.

"The handcuffs," he said at last. "Cuff me to something solid, and set the keys out of reach. So I can't free myself when you're indisposed."

“Very well.” Finally Madeline stepped back and released him, and Javert tried hard not to regret the sudden absence. Quickly he removed the cuffs and key from his belt and handed them over. “Thank you, Javert. Now, if you would, get on the bed.”

Javert blanched. “What?”

“I don’t imagine your condition will be improved by foregoing rest. Make yourself comfortable, and I’ll ensure you won’t escape.”

“But where do you intend to sleep?”

“The bed is big enough for two.” He sighed, presumably at the look he received. “You may have forgotten, Javert, but I was a laborer before I made my fortune. This is hardly the most awkward sleeping arrangement I’ve endured.” 

“I doubt your other arrangements involved a man who groped you.”

This time it was Madeline who gave him a look. “As I said.” 

Reluctantly, Javert stripped off his outermost layers, set his shoes by the door, and sat on the mattress. There were bars in the bed frame, thin and flimsy, but not entirely insubstantial. 

“I could break through these, if I tried,” Javert said.

“Not without waking me in the process,” Madeline replied, and threaded the linking chain between two bars. “And you’ll find I’m more durable than this bed. Are you comfortable?” At Javert’s look, he rephrased, “Is it painful?”

“No.” 

“Will you be able to sleep this way?”

“I don’t expect to sleep much at all tonight,” Javert said. “But the handcuffs won’t be the cause.”

“That’s all we can ask for.” Madeline turned away and peeled off his own layers, hanging them on a hook by the door before returning to the bed. He draped the blanket over Javert’s body and then climbed in alongside him. Their bodies were separated by several inches of space, but Javert was all too aware of his proximity. He could feel the heat radiating off Madeline’s body, and a perverse part of him-- the influence of the serum, he tried to tell himself-- wanted so badly to shift closer and touch. And he could, if he made an effort-- Madeline had left far too much slack in the restraint, out of some misguided gesture of kindness. It wouldn’t be difficult at all for Javert to roll over on top of Madeline. His wrists might still be bound, but he could pin the other man’s hips between his knees--

Javert squeezed his eyes shut and tried to force the thoughts from his mind. It didn’t matter what he might be able to do, because he  wouldn’t. 

“Javert?” Madeline’s voice was far too close, drifting over from the other pillow. “Are you in pain?”

 Not the kind of pain you’re thinking of.  “No, monsieur.” 

“You’re agitated.” 

“I expect I will be for some time, monsieur.” 

“I expect so.” He fell silent for a moment, and then asked, “Would it help to redirect your thoughts from-- the situation at hand?”

Likely not. But he was sure nearly anything would be better than letting his thoughts run unimpeded. At the moment, his unhinged brain was conjuring images of another situation at hand-- Madeline’s hand, in particular, gliding down Javert’s chest to redirect his thoughts in far more pleasant directions. 

“The woman,” he said abruptly, because he could think of no other image that might stop those thoughts in their tracks. “And her daughter.”

“Yes?” Madeline asked. 

“You behave as though you have a-- responsibility to them.”

Madeline hesitated. “I do.” There were a few beats of silence before he went on, “My carelessness is to blame for much of the situation Fantine has found herself in, and she has suffered terribly because of it. I intend to make it right, in any way that I can.” 

“Ah.” And so the other inescapable pattern of thought was validated. “You are the child’s father, then.” 

Madeline made an odd noise that Javert couldn’t identify. “Do I give off that impression?”

“It’s clear enough that you put stock in her happiness,” Javert said. “And you paid a great deal of money to buy her freedom. It isn’t a difficult conclusion to draw.”

“No, I suppose it isn’t.” Madeline let out a thoughtful breath. “...If I were to claim Cosette, I could ensure she has a better life than--”

“You’ve already rescued her from those people and reunited her with her mother. I assure you, her life is significantly improved.” 

“I could provide for her properly, though.”

“You could.” Javert actually did roll over now, to peer at Madeline through the dark. “And in the eyes of the town you'd become the mayor who fathered a bastard with a whore half his age.” He watched Madeline wince at the phrasing, but pressed on. “What would people make of that, do you think? What light would that cast on your decision to invite others like her into your factory? What might they imagine you expect in return?”

Madeline nearly sat up then. “I would never!”

“Of course you wouldn’t,” Javert snapped. “But speaking as the man you have chained to your bed to  prevent impropriety, you might consider that appearances will sometimes suggest otherwise.” With some effort, he softened his tone. “Even you can only extend your aid so far before it does more harm than good.”

Madeline settled back against his pillow. “I suppose you’re correct.”

“Don’t misunderstand, Monsieur. I know your intentions are noble. But even if you married her mother--”

“Married Fantine?” he asked sharply.

“--it would only needlessly complicate matters, for her and for yourself. But if--” The offer was bitter on his tongue, but he forced it out. “If concern for their wellbeing would present a distraction from your duties, then it may be only practical for me to keep an eye on them on your behalf. I would be able to pass communications between you when I present my reports, if it suited you. In order to avoid unnecessary scrutiny to you, or her.” 

Madeline rolled over on his side to look at him more directly, but Javert refused to meet his eyes. “You think I’m in love with her.” 

“She said she didn’t turn to her recent profession until after she was turned out from the factory-- long after the girl was born-- which suggests the relevant encounter was not transactional. And-- Monsieur does not strike me as the kind of man to engage in affairs untouched by the heart.” Just as well that his hands were chained over his head, so he couldn’t cover his face like some brokenhearted schoolboy. “It stands to reason that you loved her then, and your actions today suggest at least some warmth of feeling remains. I assume, of course, that you were unaware of her situation when you initially parted ways.”

“When we--” Madeline twisted hard enough that the bed creaked under his agitation. “Javert, I never met Fantine before she came to work at my factory-- and even then, I must only have laid eyes on her a handful of times, and always in a crowd. I don’t think we’d ever exchanged more than ten words before she came to petition me today. My crime is neglect as her employer, not-- not abandonment.” 

Finally Javert couldn’t stop himself from looking at him. “Then you aren’t Cosette’s father?”

“No.”

“But you were talking of claiming her--”

"If I could improve her lot in life with a lie, why wouldn't I?"

Yes, that certainly sounded like him. Madeline had shown the same distant relationship with the truth when it came to Javert's behavior toward him as well.

“And Fantine?” Javert pressed. Even if Madeline had never spoken to her before today, he hadn’t imagined the camaraderie between the two of them when they spoke in the carriage, or the depth of his concern for her. “Do you love her?”

There was no ignoring the way Madeline's expression warmed.

“I love her for her courage and devotion to her daughter,” he said. “As a saint on earth and a fellow among God’s children. But not as you are thinking, Javert. No. I am not in love with her.” 

Javert allowed that admission to linger between them. It left a strange feeling twisting in his chest-- relief, in a sense, intertwined with a different kind of ache. He could have accepted it, had it been true. Despite the looming threat of scandal, Fantine and her daughter might have made Madeline happy. And Javert would have been satisfied to be of service to that happiness, even if only as a guard and and a go-between. At least then a course of action would have been clear.

Madeline broke the silence to interrupt his thoughts: “Are… are you?”

Javert couldn’t stop himself from looking over. “I think I’ve made my own feelings clear--” He broke off before he could say another word. This entire conversation had been an illustration of just how misleading such clarity could be. Flushing, he looked away. “No. I am not in love with Fantine.”

Not with Fantine.

He waited for the inevitable next questions, but they didn’t come, and he didn’t volunteer any answers. And so he shut his eyes and listened to Madeline pretending to sleep.


 It isn't that Javert makes any special exception for Fantine. 



 It really isn't. 



 But while Valjean strictly abides by Javert's demands for isolation, his housekeeper doesn't particularly seem to care.  



 "I have your lunch," she announces, as if her footsteps approaching the guest room door wasn't enough of a warning. "I have other things to do, Javert. Don't make me stand here holding a tray all day." 



 Grumbling, he unlocks the door and steps aside to let her set it on the writing desk. 



 He's learned the hard way that she won't be dissuaded by quiet glares and protracted silences. If he wears out her patience, she'll simply unlock the door with the master key and come in anyway. 



 "Ignore me if you like," she told him the first time she barged in on him. "But if you're going to sit around all day like a piece of furniture, you ought to be prepared for me to treat you like one." 



 He tried shouting at her, once, and was promptly reminded of just how long she'd spent on the streets and how little she feared him-- and how sorely he would regret it if he ever used that sort of language while Cosette was present. 



That was a real danger, after all. This house is practically the child's second home: it isn't unusual for Fantine's flatmate to bring Cosette here
 after the girl is finished for the day at school. The old woman does her sewing in front of Valjean's hearth-- or, more often these days, dozes there-- while Cosette plays with the wealth of toys that Valjean has given her.



 Far from being annoyed by the intrusion, Valjean seems to enjoy the noise and mess and irrepressible evidence of her presence-- even now, when she's spent enough time in the company of other children that she's learning how to be loud and bold and energetic. Perhaps especially now. 



He had invited them to live here, when he offered Fantine the position as his housekeeper, but she had refused, citing the damage his reputation might suffer-- and, after all, he pays handsomely enough that her household can live comfortably in their own home.



Javert agrees-- but privately he can't help but wonder if there's another cause. If she'd rather her daughter not sleep in a house that's open at all hours to a man such as himself.



 Javert watches them, sometimes, when he's sure he won't be seen: there's something indescribable about the sight of Jean Valjean-- the esteemed mayor of Montreuil-- the formidable prisoner 24601-- being made to pour imaginary tea and ask a doll for the details of its day-- and to do so without protest, with nothing in his eyes except fondness and warmth. 



 Javert won't ever tire of seeing it. He might never look away at all, if not for the risk of being caught watching them. 


For the first time in his career, Javert excused himself from work for reasons other than injury or illness-- though Madeline insisted that the resurfacing of the poison’s effects would have qualified as both-- and reported instead to Doctor Jekyll. He submitted irritably to a thorough examination, in which he was stripped, measured, listened to with some sort of wooden implement, and made to give various samples of tissues and fluids for examination.

“I’m afraid there’s a limit to how much this can tell me,” Jekyll admitted as he applied a few droplets of blood to a glass slide. “I can compare it to samples from unaffected individuals, of course, but that still leaves ambiguity about what can be accounted for by simple variation. Ideally, I could compare it to samples from before the initial incident, but I’m afraid that’s impossible.”

“You might have, if you’d had the foresight,” Javert said, watching him work. On several occasions he’d arrived on Jekyll’s doorstep bloody from the aftermath of an arrest; Jekyll had offered to provide the service free of charge to his friend, and it was far less uncomfortable than being prodded at by the nuns at the hospital. 

“Unfortunately, I have only the gift of science, not prophecy.” Jekyll labeled the slide and set it aside. “If I’d known you were going to be attacked, I would rather hope I would have warned you instead of collecting data.” 

Javert glanced at him sidelong. Jekyll had been generous with information as well as medical aid. It had been his suggestion to collect catalogues of potential suppliers for Hyde's flask, and even showed Javert his own collection in order to familiarize him with the relevant details.

“Perhaps I’ll send some of my officers to you to submit samples,” Javert said. “As a precaution.” 

“I would appreciate it if you could.” Jekyll paused, thoughtful. “Perhaps you could send your friend the mayor along as well.”

Javert looked up sharply. “The mayor?”

“You did say he fought Hyde directly. I can only imagine that might make him a target for revenge.” 

Javert had already tried to impress on Madeline the need to take precautions against retaliation. “I’ve already secured a promise that he’ll obey the curfew-- if only to set an example to the citizenry. He seems otherwise unconcerned about an attack on his person from much of anyone.” Admittedly, that confidence might not have been unearned: Javert remembered all too clearly how easily the mayor had gathered him into his arms. He tried to avoid remembering it, in fact, if only for the sake of propriety. He had no business whatsoever contemplating his superior’s body, or the way he could feel the strain and flex of his musculature through the layers of clothes. Or the way exertion had left sweat beading on his skin--

He pulled himself out of the maze of those thoughts, but not before Jekyll caught whatever look must have crossed his face.

“He is a remarkable man, isn’t he?” Jekyll mused. “Sometimes he seems more angel than human.” 

Javert suppressed a shiver. The description wasn’t inaccurate. 

“He’s certainly virtuous to a fault,” he groused. “The man is more interested in doing right than in his own preservation. He needs to be protected from those who would take advantage of his better nature.” 

“Indeed. Though it’s fortunate for us all that he’s so single-minded in his righteousness. Could you even imagine the darker side of such a man?” 

“I don’t have to imagine it,” Javert said. “Such a man already exists.” 

The thought was already fresh in his mind, summoned by the memory of Madeline’s strength. There was only one man he had ever seen who could have surpassed him in power-- not an angel, like Madeline, but a demon given human form. 

“Have you?” Jekyll asked. “You must tell me his name-- I'm sure he would make for a fascinating study.” 

“He didn’t have a name,” Javert said. “He lost that when he forfeited his freedom. But his number was 24601.”

Fun fact! At this point in history the stethoscope was recently invented (1816!) by Frenchman Rene Theophile Hyacinthe Laënnec, and it was essentially just a wooden block with a hole drilled down the center. So Jekyll is being pretty cutting edge using one here.

“Monsieur, I have more complaints from your workers.”

Madeline tried very hard not to grimace. The sudden bout of turbulent weather had left him with a prolonged headache, and the unrest on the factory floor was doing nothing to relieve it. He desperately wished his foremen would handle such matters on their own, but he knew by now which way they would side. “Allow me to cut to the chase: has anyone actually acted incorrectly?”

“The new hires are coarse and crass in a way unbefitting your company.”

“In short, no.” If there was any substantial action, the foreman would have led with that. “Impart my disappointment with their behavior, and impress that I expect better of them.”

“They’d get the point a lot better if you let me fire them-- or dock their wages--”

“Unacceptable.” Madeline raised himself from the chair. “I will not force my citizens to choose between facing starvation and facing Hyde. Do you have anything else of substance for me? No? Then I recommend you focus your attention on finding ways to reach peace between them without resorting to such punishments. You are dismissed.”

The foreman left, and Javert was visible on the other side of the open door.

Strange, that Madeline should welcome the sight of him.

Before the incident with Hyde, he'd been struck by bone-deep anxiety every time they crossed paths. Javert had always seemed like something superhuman-- wood and stone, unbending and unforgiving. Even when his back was turned he could feel Javert watching him, scrutinizing him, waiting for his misstep, always ready to clap him in irons and drag him back to the bagne.

And now--

Now he was a man. A man who could be hurt, who could be terrified, who could be moved by desire, who could be weighed down by guilt and shame. A man who seemed confused by kindness, as though he wasn't familiar enough with it to know how to respond, except with growls and glares and the fervor of a hound guarding its home.

He was just a man, who deserved protection and compassion and mercy like any other man.

“Inspector," Madeline said warmly. "Come in.” 

“Monsieur le maire." Javert gave a small bow.

“How are you feeling?”

“Improved. Though I am monitoring my condition.”

“That’s all I could ask for,” Madeline said. Overhead the rain eased up its constant drumming on its roof, lightening to a mere patter.

“Monsieur might be pleased to know that crime and unrest remains on the decline. It seems that there is little energy left for mischief after it’s been expended in the course of honest work.”

“Perhaps,” Madeline said. “Or it may be that people who can meet their needs through honest means won’t need to seek out dishonest ones elsewhere.” 

“Perhaps,” Javert echoed, which was more of a concession than Madeline expected to hear from him. He looked up, and tried not to let his surprise show. “Monsieur le maire, it seems that an apology is in order.” 

Ah. He should have expected this. “Javert, your apology has already been given and accepted. What happened in Montfermeil--”

“If I may, monsieur, what I’m referring to is an unrelated matter.” He straightened his posture and corrected the most miniscule of flaws in his appearance before he continued, “I confess I have previously suspected you of-- wrongdoings. Ones which you obviously have not committed.” 

“Really, the misunderstanding regarding Fantine and myself was entirely understandable. The evidence you presented would have led anyone to believe--”

“It is an unrelated matter to that, as well.” A flush rose in his cheeks. “It seems I have no shortage of trespasses against your person, monsieur. I would not add another to the list, if my conscience would at all permit me to withhold it, but I must confess: when I arrived in Montreuil, I mistook you for another man. A convict.”

The blood drained from Madeline's face. Javert, apparently oblivious, plunged ahead:

“Shortly after his release from prison he broke parole and disappeared-- not long before you arrived in Montreuil without your papers. I understand the circumstances of the fire in which they were lost, but to my mind the coincidence warranted suspicion. And you seemed-- similar to him. His silhouette was not unlike yours, and he possessed a streak of ingenuity of a kind to your own-- though in him I would rather call it cunning,” he added quickly. “I had no other evidence to support the theory, obviously.”

Madeline folded his hands in front of him to prevent them from curling into white-knuckled fists.

He could have borne this from the gargoyle he'd once perceived Javert to be. He could have become cold or angry or cruel.

But instead Javert was meek-- or what passed for meekness in him. He hid it behind the rigid posture of parade rest, but now Madeline could see the chagrin in his eyes.

“This is the first I’ve heard about it," he said slowly.

“As I said. I owe you an apology.” 

Madeline forced a breath, and another. “Javert, I am not about to fault you for thoughts you entertain in the privacy of your own mind.” 

The flush on Javert’s face rose higher. “I have-- mentioned them. Those suspicions. To a confidant of mine.”

Madeline focused intently on keeping his expression neutral, on keeping his hands flat, on keeping his spine unbowed. “Oh?”

“I am confident in his discretion, monsieur. And he put no stake in my theories as anything more than an idle thought.” 

“Then no harm has been done,” Madeline said. “You are forgiven, Javert. Put it out of your mind.” He tried to steady himself. Javert’s suspicions had faded. As far as he was concerned, they were nothing more than a flight of fancy. That was all. That was all. He was safe. “Now. I believe you have a report for me?”

“Indeed.” Javert gave another small bow. “As I said, the rate of crime has gone down considerably since your revised policy. In the past week--”

There was a crash, so loud that it could have passed for a crack of thunder, if not for what followed after: the drawn out shriek of a beast in agony, a scream, and the shouts that filtered from below:

“The cart! Sweet Jesus, he’s going to be crushed!” 

Madeline and Javert didn’t look at each other before they barreled down the stairs, one after the other, and burst onto the street beyond the factory doors. A crowd had already started to form; at its center was a cart, its wheels splayed apart on either sides of a broken axle, buried  and still sinking in the mud. The old nag that had dragged the overladen thing now lay on its side, still shrieking, two legs bent at a ruinous angle, the rest flailing wildly as it tried to flee the source of its pain. And beneath the cart lay its driver, old Pere Fauchelevant, groaning like a lost soul already as the hulking mass pressed down on him.

“You there!” Javert snapped, grabbing the nearest of the onlookers. “Run to the Flachot’s and get a jackscrew. Hurry!” 

But even if the man ran like Hermes, the jack would take far too long to arrive. Madeline called on others by name-- anyone with able arms and a strong back-- and urged them to join him in lifting the cart. They gathered around it, heaved with all their might, and the cart began to rise, slowly, slowly-- and then it plunged sharply back down as one of the volunteers lost his footing in the thick mud. A scream ripped from Fauchelevant’s throat as the weight crashed down on him with redoubled force. The horse flailed harder, its sharp hooves beating at the volunteers until, with the report of Javert’s pistol, it fell silent and still. 

“It’s no use,” Javert said, grim-faced. “The only way to get the leverage you need is to lift from underneath. We need that jackscrew.”

A jackscrew.

“Or a man.” Madeline’s mouth was dry, but he felt like he was choking on salt-thick mud of the galley. “If someone could get down beneath it--” 

“If a man goes down there he’ll be crushed for sure!” someone in the crowd said.

Madeline looked about wildly. “I’ll pay five louis d’or to anyone who will attempt it.”

None came forward. Even the muddied volunteers averted their eyes.

“Ten louis,” he said. Panic rose in him. “Twenty!” He turned, and his eyes met Javert’s. Something passed between them in that moment. Javert’s head inclined, just slightly, and he shifted his weight as if to step forward-- a dog heeding to the command of its master.

Madeline threw his coat to the ground. “Very well.” 

Javert blinked. “Monsieur le maire--”

“Be prepared to pull him out,” Madeline instructed, already swallowing bile as he sank low and wedged himself beneath the widest point that still remained between the cart and the sea of mud. 

It had been wrong of him-- cowardly-- to ask anyone at all. They were right: any creature less than a living jackscrew would be crushed to death by the weight. 

And Javert-- Javert, who had that very man in the forefront of his thoughts-- who was already weighed down by his own sins, both real and imaginary, and would destroy himself in atonement-- who might be spurred into a transformation under the weight of the cart and come out either ruined or dying in the throes of madness--

No. It could not be Javert. 

Which left only himself. 

There was shouting above him, all around him, but he heard nothing except the groan of the cart and the rushing in his own ears. He whispered a prayer to the Almighty and pushed, his limbs sinking into the drowning mud, but he braced his arms and legs against it to spread the weight wider and pushed harder still, until his muscles were screaming and the cart was wailing and Fauchelevant--

Fauchelevant vanished, pulled to safety. 

The cart rattled against his spine, shuddering at an unfamiliar touch, then another, and another still. He caught the sight of hands wrapping around the edges of the cart and pulling together-- some of them slipping away as their owners lost their footing, but replaced a moment later-- until there was enough space for him to crawl free. More hands grabbed at his sleeves and helped pull him away from the wreckage before it sank back down behind him. 

“You’re alright, monsieur,” someone said, and he recognized the voice of Fantine. “We’ve got you.”

“And-- Fauchelevant?” 

“They’re bringing him to the factory’s infirmary.” She smiled at him. “He’s alive because of you.” 

Madeline looked up, peering through the kaleidoscopic crowd for another face, but he couldn’t find him.

Javert was gone. 


 “Javert-- Javert, please.” 



 “A week,” Javert says, and continues his march toward the door. “That’s all I agreed to. My ankle is improved and I can walk well enough, so I see no reason to extend my stay.” 



 That wound is so thoroughly scarred over that Madeline doesn’t even have to fight the urge to wince. He himself is not a worthwhile reason to stay. He accepts this.  



 But he cannot accept Javert leaving.  



 “It isn’t safe for you out there,” he pleads.  



 “It never has been. I see no reason to change my habits now.” 



 “Because things have changed!” Madeline thrusts the torn black hood into Javert’s hands. For a week it’s barely left his person-- in quiet moments he’s taken it from his pocket and stared at it, with the same compulsion toward pain with which he might prod at a bruise or suck at a broken tooth. “What do you call that, Javert?”  



 He looks at it with a shuttered expression. “Sackcloth.”  



 “Why in God’s name was it around your neck when you came here?” 



 “You aren’t a stupid man, Valjean. You know why.” Javert slowly raises his eyes, and his gaze is sharp as broken glass. “They intended to tie me up and throw me into the sea. Apparently they were under the impression that I couldn’t report them for misconduct if I was dead.” 



 Madeline’s hand rises to his mouth, and he thinks for a moment he might vomit.  



 It seems Inspector Faure spoke to his men after all.  



 “What, are you surprised?” Javert demands. “Don’t be-- it’s your own doing, after all!” He advances a step, and Madeline can’t help but to retreat. “You set the stage for this. Here I am, the lunatic who killed for you-- and instead of having me arrested, as is my due, you pardon me, you protect me, you welcome me into your own home. And they-- they who know what I am!-- they don’t see me as another pitiful charity case that you’ve taken under your wing. They think I’m your personal assassin!” His expression is wild, his eyes even worse. Reflexively Madeline searches his face for the hallmarks of Javert’s episodes, but there are none. He is, in this moment, brutally sane. “And if this is allowed to continue in broad daylight, then why shouldn’t anything else? Why shouldn’t they accept bribes? Why shouldn’t they extort and brutalize and blackmail, when clearly all it takes to get free rein is to earn your affection?”  



 “No,” Madeline whispers, but his argument can go no further. Hasn't Faure said the same to him, over and over, every time Madeline challenged him? Hasn't Javert warned him of precisely this from the very beginning-- that he needed to be an example, that he needed to stand above the rest, or else-- 



But couldn't he set an example of mercy? Of compassion?



 “You never did this," he says. "You never did anything like this.”  



 “Of course not! I was beyond reproach--every instant of every day I made sure to be unimpeachable! I worked at it-- it took constant discipline, and I tried-- but I have fallen--” His voice cracks, and with it, the whole of his countenance. Behind the stony facade there is finally visible a deep, cavernous despair. “I have fallen, and there is nothing left for me. Not here.”  



 The torn hood falls from his shaking hands. 



 “Don’t you understand? It isn’t only your reputation that’s ruined by my being here, it’s the entire town. I have tried to keep my distance from you, but I can’t.” His voice breaks into something even smaller. “No matter what I do, no matter where I go, the madness always brings me back to your side. It has to be you who sends me away, Valjean.” 



 Madeline backs away another step, shaking his head. “No--” 



 “You have to. I can’t do it on my own.” Tears threaten at the corners of Javert's eyes. His legs fail, and he falls to his knees as despair finally overcomes the last of his pride. “I can’t leave so long as you’ll let me return. End this, Valjean. I’m begging you. Let me go.” 



 Javert has returned to his bedroom. 



 It’s what Madeline wanted-- he’s safe from the retribution of the men who were once his subordinates-- but there is no satisfaction in getting his way. When Javert trudged back into that chamber, it was with the broken submission of a prisoner in chains. 



 That was days ago. Javert hasn't left the room since then. He hasn't spoken to anyone, not even Fantine. Her own attempts to open the door revealed that it had been barricaded shut from the other side. It budges enough for her to push through food and water, but no more. 



 This cannot go on. 



 Madeline braces himself for a breath, and then knocks at the door. 



 “Javert.” 



 He doesn’t expect an answer, and none comes. 



 “I would speak with you. Please.” 



 Another long silence. 



 “Javert--” 



 “Say what you want. I’m not stopping you.”  



 It’s a bitter relief to hear his voice. There’s a gnawing fear that he might truly die in there-- or that he’ll grow too weak to break down his barricade from the inside. Ever since Fantine admitted that the door couldn’t be opened, Madeline has had to constantly talk himself back from breaking it to splinters with his bare hands-- or scaling the wall and smashing the window pane to get inside. The temptation grows sharper every day. 



 “I won’t keep you a prisoner here.” 



 “No need,” Javert says. “I seem to be doing that well enough on my own.”  



"Javert--" Madeline flattens his hand against the door. “Let me help you end this."



 The floor creaks on the other side, but Javert doesn’t say a word. 



 “You left Montreuil once without incident,” Madeline continues. “Do you remember? You went to Montfermeil to fetch Cosette. You didn’t change then.” 



 “Yes, I did.” 



 “Only later, when that man came at me with a knife. But before then-- for hours in a coach, and after-- you were entirely yourself.” 



 Silence. 



 “Javert--” 



 “I remember.” Javert sounds utterly exhausted. 



 “Why were you able to leave then? What made the difference?” 



 “Perhaps because I knew I would be coming back,” he says. “Perhaps because I did it in the course of my duty. Perhaps because— you were there.” 



 “So that would make a difference, then.” 



 “When I change, I always return to you. It is only one common thread among several, but it hasn’t escaped my notice. Or yours, apparently.” The floor creaks again. “Enough leading me by the hand. Where are you going with this?” 


Madeline takes a steadying breath. “If I were to leave Montreuil with you, do you think you could go safely?” 


 Javert's sigh is heavy enough to carry through the door. “I'll only wind up back here when you return.” 



 “And if I don’t intend to return?” 



 There is a long, dread silence. And then: “I can’t ask that of you.” 



 “You don’t have to,” Madeline says slowly. “I have been considering it for some time already.” 



 “Are you insane?” Javert asks, and his voice is animated for the first time in this conversation. “Don’t answer that-- of course you are. But you can’t just walk away from this place. You’re the mayor!” 



 “I only accepted this position because I could no longer avoid it. You were right about what you said– my behavior is unsuitable for my post.” 



 “You can’t really--” Javert sputters. “I spoke out of frustration, I wasn’t–” 



 “You were right.” Madeline squeezes his eyes shut. “Time and time again, I have found my duty to my fellow man at odds with my duty to this town. I think it would be better for-- everyone, if I were to resign my station.” 



 “And your factory?” 



 “I have instructed my lawyers to begin the process of looking for a buyer.” 



 “Don’t,” Javert says, halfway between an order and a plea. “Don’t do this for me.” 



 “I intended to leave this place long ago. I remained--” He shakes his head. “It's immaterial. I only ask that when I leave, you come with me. You don’t have to stay for long-- just enough to get away from Montreuil. Once you’re free of this place, you never have to see me again.”  



 There’s another soft creak as unshod footsteps creep closer to the door. Madeline listens to him move in silence. Finally Javert asks, soft enough that his voice barely passes through the door: “Where would you go?” 



 “Fantine told me she had hoped to make a new start in Paris, once,” Madeline says. “People don’t ask questions in a city of that size. The past can be left behind, and no one will disturb it. I intend to take her there.” He leans closer to the door, his brow almost resting against the polished wood. “You could find a place for yourself there. Rejoin the police, if you like.” 



 “They won’t take me back.” 



 “You were acquitted of your crimes. As far as anyone outside Montreuil is concerned, your slate is clean. And you will have the recommendation of a government official behind you. They won’t turn you away.” He hesitates. “But if you would rather leave them behind, you are free to do so. I will see you safely to wherever you want to go.” 



 “It’s that simple, then. Just like that.” Javert laughs bitterly. “After all this time, I was starting to think you might never get up the nerve to be rid of me.”  



 “I had thought--” Madeline swallows. It doesn’t matter what he thought. “I never intended to trap you by my side.”  He clears his throat. “It will be a short time before the arrangements are finalized. Think on it, and let me know how you want to proceed.”  



 He leaves before Javert can reply. 


It took all the energy Madeline had left to extract himself from the crowd outside the factory. Several of the townspeople had insisted he join Fauchelevant in the infirmary to have his own wounds treated, but he assured them repeatedly that there were none-- that the blood on his clothes belonged to the poor horse, and not himself, and that he was merely sore and tired from the ordeal. He entered the infirmary only to scribble a note to Fauchelevant to indicate his purchase of the old man’s horse and cart, and then hired a cab to take him to his home. The driver had tried to refuse payment, but conceded when he saw the exhaustion on Madeline’s face, and at last agreed to take what he was given without further argument. 

In the shelter of his room, he peeled off his ruined clothes and scraped off the worst of the mud and filth, then set to wiping away the rest with a washcloth and a basin of water. The water was grimy and thick long before he felt truly clean-- he’d have to fill a tub for a proper bath, once he had the energy-- but it was enough to reveal the places where loose stones and splintered wood had gouged into his skin. They would leave scars, no doubt. At least these would be well earned. 

He cleaned the debris from the wounds as best he could, and smeared them with the salve he kept ready in his home. It clung awkwardly to his shirt as he pulled it over his head, and tugged at the open wounds.

His head throbbed. There was so much still left to do-- he needed to wash himself properly, clean up the mud before it ruined the carpet and flooring, settle things with the town before people piled even more scrutiny on his aching shoulders-- and even that would be only a matter of reducing the impact. Surely he'd be dealing with the consequences of this incident for-- days? Weeks? Possibly longer still.

Holy God, he was so tired.

Which was why he didn’t think to pay any heed to the creak of floorboards-- not until he felt cold iron close around his wrist.

His breath caught. Instinctively he flailed, but a second manacle closed around the other wrist, pinioning his hands behind him. An arm wrapped around his chest, a gloved hand closing around his throat, and he felt the coarse wool of a police uniform press against his back through a layer of thin linen. 

“Now I have you,” Javert purred in a low, rasping singsong. “Back in my custody where you belong.” 

“Javert?” Madeline whispered, and his throat pressed against that unyielding grip. “Javert, what are you doing?”

“I would think that might be obvious.” Javert’s hand tightened. “I’m arresting a recidivist. A thief. A liar.” His breath was hot against Madeline’s ear. “Don’t try to deny it."

Madeline had only barely finished tending his wounds and dressed again. How long had Javert been standing here? How much had he seen?

“You aren’t yourself,” he said, twisting to try and get a better look at Javert’s contorted features. “What happened? Did Hyde do this to you?” 

"I haven't seen Hyde. Only you." Javert yanked him back against his chest, pinning his hands between their bodies. "Only you, laughing at me. Pretending to be so very noble and kind to throw me off your scent. I knew you were too good to be real. And I was right. I let you make a fool of me and I was right."

"Javert, I don't--"

"You thought you were clever, didn't you? Asking to fuck me in the dark so I couldn't see your scars. But you got complacent. You thought because I would grovel for your saintly forgiveness that I would put it out of my mind-- that I would ignore clear evidence when you dangled it before my eyes. But I saw you, 24601. I saw the scars from your collar and shackles. I saw the edges of the lash on your shoulders. The whole town was looking to the cart and that miserable wretch beside you, but my eyes were only on you. My eyes were only ever on you."

With a sharp jerk, he tore the fabric of Madeline's shirt collar. The shred hung loose, exposing the edges of a prisoner's brand.

“I should strip you down and march you to the prefecture, 24601. Let everyone see you for what you really are.” 

The cold air sank deep into Madeline's bare skin.

“You can’t do that,” he whispered.


 “Watch me.” 


“You can’t.” He tried to rein in his panic. He’d seen Javert like this twice before-- he was impulsive, short-sighted, easily distracted. He could be outwitted, so long as Madeline could keep his own wits about him. “Think for a moment, Javert. Do you really intend to drag a wounded, naked man through the streets? You’ll be arrested on the spot. Looking as you do now, acting as you are, they might even attribute some of Hyde’s attacks to you.” He twisted again, to catch Javert’s eyes. "Would you really take another man’s punishment while the real villain walks free?” 

“Oh, but that’s where you’re wrong,” Javert hissed. “We’re all villains here.”

“Not you, Javert.” He softened his voice. “There could be nothing further from that than you.” 

“What?” An awful laugh burst from Javert. “No defense for the saintly mayor? No. We both know better than that, you and I. Let’s not waste any more words on this pretense.” He turned his head to growl the words directly into Madeline’s hair. “We both know what you are. Just as we both know what I am.”

Madeline took a shuddering breath. “And what are you?”

 “Hungry.” The word was long and drawn out, so low that Madeline could feel it resonating through his own chest. 

And just like that, the path to freedom cleared before him.

“Is that why you put your mouth on me, before?” he asked, tilting his head to show off the half-healed scar, exposed by his torn collar. “You intended to eat me?” 

Javert gravitated to the imprint of his own teeth. “There are other kinds of hungers.” His tongue flicked out over the shining pink flesh. 

“Still?” Madeline leaned in, pressing his back against Javert’s chest. “I would think I would have put you off your appetite. You can’t truly want a man you believe to be a convict.”

“You  are a convict,” Javert hissed. “You are Jean Valjean.” 

He didn’t even need to falsify the shiver that ran through him. It was the first time he’d heard his name spoken since before he’d come to this town. “Is that what you think?”

“I know.” Javert pulled him closer still. There was a hardness only barely disguised by the layers of his uniform, nudging at his flank. “I’ve been watching you, Valjean. Every moment of every day. I watched you in the galleys, I memorized your face, your body, your voice. The moment I arrived in this place, I knew you. I didn’t allow myself to believe it, but I knew you. I would know you anywhere.” 

"And you wanted me still? With everything you suspected? With everything you know?"

"Always."

Madeline pressed his hips back and turned his head, just a whisper away from Javert’s lips, and let out a panting breath. “Then know me here.” 

Javert uttered an animal growl as he crushed their mouths together-- just for a moment, and then he pulled back again, Valjean’s lower lip scraping between his teeth. 

The hand around his throat rose to cup his cheek; the other wrapped around him in a frantic caress. Madeline hissed as Javert seized a nipple through the torn fabric, rolling it between his fingers in a vicious pinch. 

“That’s right.” Javert thrust hard. “You like that, don’t you?” 

“Yes,” Madeline confessed, and the word pitched higher as Javert twisted the tender flesh again. The hand glided lower to tug Madeline’s smallclothes down to his thighs, pausing only to ease his engorged prick free of the cotton. His fingertips traced over the length of Madeline’s cock and back again, and then wrapped his large palm around the shaft.

 Focus,  Madeline told himself, but he couldn’t stifle a groan. He hadn’t felt another man’s flesh against his own this way since the bagne. 

“Please,” he gasped, and bucked into Javert’s hand. “Javert-- please--”

Javert kissed him again, harsh and full of teeth and almost overwhelming. “What do you want?”

 I want you to fold me over this desk and fuck me with that eager cock of yours.  Madeline bit back the words before they could escape. Focus. “Let me touch you. Please— I need to touch you.” 

Javert nodded, the gesture half lost in another ravenous kiss, and then fumbled along his belt-- and then along Madeline’s wrist. There was a click as the manacle came loose and fell away, dangling by its short chain from his other hand.

He could do it now: throw Javert off of him and cuff him to something solid, grab his things and flee, and on his way out send a note to the prefecture to tell them that Javert had been accosted by a criminal in the mayor’s home. He should be able to put some distance behind him before the confusion settled enough for anyone to give chase. 

But it was getting hard to think about any of that. Javert’s own trousers were coming down, and his bare prick was hot and hard against him, probing its way down his cleft and settling instead in the crease of his thighs. 

Groaning, Madeline squeezed his legs together, bracing himself against the desk for a better angle. He could feel every inch of Javert’s length as it pushed between the muscles there, hot and hard and tight. As he bottomed out, the head of his cock struck Madeline’s ballsack, and he arched his back against the jolt of sudden pleasure. 

“You liked that, didn’t you?” Javert pulled back and thrust in again, hard enough to make the pleasure flare with sparks of exhilarating pain. He took Madeline’s unshackled wrist and guided it off the elegant mahogany to a different kind of wood.

“Show me,” Javert rasped into his ear. “Show me how you like it. Show me how you please yourself when you’re alone.”

Madeline wanted to say that he didn’t-- that he hadn’t, since he’d been reborn by the Bishop’s mercy-- but that had changed after the first time Javert touched him this way. How many nights had he traced the scar on his shoulder and remembered the feel of Javert’s lips there? How many times had he recounted the filthy things Javert had said to him, and wanted desperately to make them reality?

Panting, he took himself in hand as he had on those nights, his grip tight to the point of pain, his motions hard and fast and punishing. Javert clutched his hips hard enough to bruise and matched his pace, stroke for stroke. Every grunt of impact, every gasp of hot breath against his skin, every thrust against his balls ratcheted the pleasure higher, higher, higher– and then Javert sank his teeth into his shoulder, and Madeline was coming with a ragged shout. 

Javert pulled him tight against his chest, the savage thrusts stilled as Madeline spilled into his own waiting hand.

“Glorious,” Javert whispered into his ear, and caught Madeline’s soiled hand in his own again and brought it to his own waiting mouth. A hot, flat tongue lapped the seed from Madeline’s palm, traced lovingly over the creases of his skin, slipped into the crevices between his fingers. Even filthier than the act was the desperate moan that dragged from Javert’s mouth as he licked him clean, and for all that Madeline was spent, his prick gave an eager jerk at the sound. 

He twisted around-- he meant to kiss Javert again, to taste himself on that brilliant tongue-- but his shaking legs refused to hold him any longer. Instead he fell to his knees at the base of the desk. Javert’s bare prick was right there, hard and straining, flushed with blood and red with friction and leaking with the prelude to orgasm.

Even if Madeline could resist such a sight, he didn’t want to. 

There was no mastery, no thought; he had only enough presence of mind to cover his teeth with his lips and bring Javert’s hand to his hair, and then Javert was fucking his mouth as ruthlessly as he’d fucked his thighs. Spots danced in the darkness where he squeezed his eyes shut. He couldn’t remember how to breathe around the intrusion, but he couldn’t bring himself to care. Breathing didn’t matter. Escape didn’t matter. Nothing at all mattered, except for Javert’s fingers against his scalp and his cock in his mouth and his spend pouring down his throat. 

I've had A Day. Have a chapter.


 The house has become a mausoleum. The lamps and candles are unlit, the fireplaces gape empty. Dust cloths cover the opulent furniture like shrouds over bodies. Cosette’s toys and drawings are gone, packed away as though they were never there at all. 



 Javert walks the halls like a ghost, his steps muffled into silence by a layer of thick dust on the hall carpet. 



 Valjean stands before the cold mantel, his hands clasped and his head bowed in prayer, turned to the place where a pair of silver candlesticks would ordinarily stand. 



 That’s how Javert knows this to be a dream. Valjean prefers to kneel when he prays this way. And he wouldn’t pack away the candlesticks like mere luggage.  



 Javert creeps up behind him; if Valjean notices his approach, he doesn’t acknowledge it-- that’s likely for the best. Even here, even now, Javert wouldn’t dare to do this if Valjean turned to look at him. Better if he thinks this is just another episode of madness, even within the safety of a dream. 



 Valjean isn’t wearing his waistcoat; through the thin cloth of his shirt Javert can see the shadows of scars. He bends his head and presses his lips to the highest of them: a thick, ugly line, raised and ropy as though the whip itself had lodged itself under the skin before it healed.  



 “I’m sorry,” he whispers, and kisses along the line of it. Another scar crosses its path, wider but still new, jagged where the splintered wood of a cart had carved through skin. An act of selflessness, punished with assault. He didn't deserve that. He doesn't deserve any of this. But even in the dream, there's nothing Javert can say to undo those wrongs. He's powerless, except to kiss those scars in an endless litany of apologies.



“ I’m sorry. I’m sorry. I’m sorry.” 

Javert stumbled back from the body at his feet. The post-coital haze was fading, and in its absence came a yawning, freezing horror. 

The man-- the mayor-- Valjean-- Madeline-- was sprawled on the floor like a broken toy, held up only by the desk at his back. His head lolled to one side, tear tracks running down his cheeks, a trickle of semen leaking from the corner of his mouth. Javert’s handcuffs dangled limply from one of his wrists. His clothes were rumpled, clinging to his skin with sweat, darkening with blood from his recent injuries under the cart--  sweet Jesus,  he found himself begging,  let them be from the cart.  

He was breathing-- thank God, he was still breathing-- but Javert didn’t dare come closer than necessary to catch the rise and fall of his chest. He hadn’t killed him, then. 

But he might have. That he hadn’t was a matter of pure chance. He'd just-- he'd grabbed him and--

Bile rose in his throat, and alongside the sour flavor he became aware of the bitter salt thick on his tongue.

What had he done?

Oh God, what had he done?

He’d lost his mind, turned back into that thing, over-- what? A suspicion-- a guess-- a conjecture and an attraction and--

And he'd attacked the man. The mayor. Madeline, who had forgiven him everything--

Until this.

There would be no forgiveness for this.


 Javert is unsurprised to hear Fantine’s fist against the door. 



 “Get out here, Javert,” she shouts. “Open this door and face me, you coward!” 



 “I take it Valjean has gone out for the evening,” he observes dryly. She wouldn’t be using this volume if she thought her precious benefactor could hear.   



 “What the fuck did you say to him?” 



 “A good many things. You’ll have to be more specific.” 



 “He’s--” She makes a strangled sound and slams her fist against the door again, mostly for emphasis. “I haven’t seen him like this before. He’s stopped going out, except to speak to those damned lawyers. He’s locking himself in his room like you. He’s refusing to eat-- Damn it, he’s hurt.” 



 Javert resists
 the urge to get up from his bed. “Again, you’ll have to specify. If you haven’t noticed, I’m the author of a great deal of his misery." 



 “Is that why he’s selling his factory?”  



 Javert feels a stab of guilt. “What he does with his property is none of my concern.”  



 “And why he’s trying to step down as mayor?” 



 Another pang. He would think he’d stop feeling it by now. “Nor is that.”  



 She wrenches open the door, and it bangs against the dresser that he’s shoved in front of it. “For the love of God, Javert, talk to him!” 



 “My talking to him caused this behavior– do you really think it will solve anything?” 



 “He cares about you.” 



This again.



 “You know better than that. You of all people know better.” Finally he stands, turning to face the crack in the door. “What he feels for me is what you felt for the men who used you in the gutter-- the only difference is that he regards me with a great deal more pity.” 



 Her face reddens with fury, but her voice goes deadly quiet. “You don’t know the first thing about that.” 



 “Feel free to take that up with my mother." He grabs the edge of the door, ready to shut it and end this conversation. "If Valjean has finally overcome his self-abasement enough to remove himself from me, then by all means, you should congratulate him.”  



"There's only one way he intends to remove himself from you." Fantine throws her weight on the door to keep it ajar. "And that's the way you keep trying to remove yourself from him.”  



 Javert looks up sharply. “What?” 



 “Is that what it takes to get your attention? Someone ought to tell him that. Maybe he might stop trying so hard to hide it.” 



 He steps back from the door. The room has gone cold. “What are you talking about? Fantine--” 



 “He’s been making bizarre arrangements that have the lawyers wringing their hands when they leave here, all about what he intends to do with his wealth when he’s gone. I found one of those papers just now, Javert. I might not know many of my letters, but I know that my name’s on it-- and so is yours. Because he intends to see us taken care of, when he isn’t around to do it himself.” 


When he's gone--

When he isn't around to do it--


But he isn't-- He's going to go to Paris. He said he's going to leave Montreuil and go to Paris.



No-- that's not what he said at all, is it? That's what he made it sound like, because he's a liar to the core. But he only ever said he'd take Fantine there. What happens after-- what will become of him after--



 "Stop him." There’s a rushing in his ears, but he forces it back. Breathe. Breathe. He has to be sane for this. “For the love of God, stop him.” 



 “Do you think I haven’t tried?” she demands. “It’s all I can do to keep him eating, and most days even that much is beyond me. He won’t hear me, Javert. It has to be you.”  


“Jekyll!” Javert nearly threw himself at the door. “Jekyll, let me in!”

One of Madame Romilly’s servants cracked open the door, peering at him like-- well, like there was a madman on the other side.

“Monsieur l’inspector?” he said, “Is there something I can--!” He got no further before Javert shoved the door open and lunged inside, nearly throwing the footman to the floor in the process.

“Jekyll!”

“Javert?” The doctor rushed down the stairs toward him, his eyes already wide in alarm. “In God’s name, what’s gotten into you?”

“I-- the mayor--” His mouth opened and shut uselessly. He couldn’t say the words. Before he could make another attempt, Jekyll had one arm around his shoulders and was ushering him toward his laboratory, away from the servants’ prying gazes. 

“What’s happened?” Jekyll asked as soon as he had the door shut behind them. “What did you do?”

“The mayor,” Javert managed to choke out. “He’s hurt. I-- I hurt him.” 

“Dear God. Is he alive?”

“Yes-- but he needs help. He needs a doctor. And I--” He trembled. “I can’t go anywhere else. Even if I explain, they won’t believe me-- not enough to restrain me properly, not enough to keep me from--” Already his heart was racing. That awful roar was swelling in his ears, coming for him, ready to drag him back into that-- “Please, Henry. You have to stop me.” 

Jekyll stepped back, his expression grim. “Alright.” He turned away and dug through his equipment, coming back moments later with a metal flask. “This is a sedative. It should keep you subdued for a short while-- long enough for me to see to the mayor, at any rate. We can figure out afterward how to proceed.” Javert snatched it from him and downed the tincture with a single swallow. “Good. Now I need you to tell me, where is the mayor?”

“He’s--” He clutched at the flask. “He’s in his home. In his office. He’s--” He blinked. Blinked again.

The flask felt familiar in his hand-- like the one he’d taken to keeping in his pocket, borrowed from the prefecture evidence drawer. Almost exactly like it. 

“Javert?”

“I know this,” he said. 

“What?”

“This-- this flask. I know this. You said--” His tongue stuck awkwardly in his mouth, already halfway numb. “You said you showed me all your equipment. But this wasn't with the rest. Why did-- why would you hide this from me?”

And only this one, of all the others. The precise size and shape of the flask Hyde had used.

Javert had never told him its dimensions.

“That would be the sedative doing its work.” Jekyll wrapped a hand around Javert's and pried the flask from his grip, gentle but firm. "You’re confused."

“No.”

“Go and lie down, Javert. We can talk about this more after I see to the mayor.”

“It was you,” he said, forcing the words out. “Hyde’s accomplice. All this time, it was you.”

Something changed in Jekyll’s face then: the concern slipped away, and in its place was a mixture of resignation and annoyance and relief.

He sighed. “That’s a very simple way of putting it, I suppose.” 

Javert tried to rush him, but his feet caught on the carpet and he careened to the floor. Jekyll watched him fall with scholarly disinterest.

“It’s a shame. I’d like to have studied you for longer.”

“Study?” Javert slurred.

“You’ve already given me a wealth of information,” Jekyll said, turning away to dig through more of his equipment. “Do you know, initially I chose you because you would present the most stark contrast-- I'd never met a man who suppressed his impulses so desperately-- but you've given me so much more than I could have hoped for. It’s fascinating, really– we drank the same formula, you and I, apart from one key difference. It seems one of the primary ingredients in my own was tainted by the supplier, and the effect was… singular. Unfortunately, as the supplier was unaware of the flaw, I find it difficult to pinpoint exactly what the contaminant would have been. Ah-- there we are.”

He turned back to Javert, now holding a collection of leather belts.

“The version of the serum that I gave to you includes the necessary salts in their properly purified state, of course. It seems to be a lesser derivative– in myself, it takes several times the usual dose to trigger a transformation. But in you, there’s no real physical change at all. Why is that, do you think?”

Javert couldn’t answer. He couldn’t even move as Jekyll secured the belts around his wrists.

“There’s also the matter of your… fixation. As Hyde, I can do anything. Pursue any desire. But you only ever seem to return to the same man. I have to wonder-- is that a result of the changed formula? Or is it a product of your own innate single-mindedness? It’s impossible to say, of course-- not with such a limited sample size. To get any real information, I would need additional specimens. Which reminds me.”

He flashed a polite smile and rang for a servant.

“I ought to thank you, Javert, for being so kind as to prepare one for me.”

Through the haze of the sedative, Javert was vaguely aware of Jekyll and one of Madame Romilly’s servants hauling him into a carriage, and of being driven back to the mayor’s residence. 

“--there’s no need to worry,” Jekyll said, somewhere overhead. “I’ve got him bound and sedated. If he tries anything, I’m confident I’ll be able to subdue him.” 

“Are you certain about that, Doctor?”

“I am-- far more certain than I would be if we left him with my dear cousin. Just go to the prefecture and summon the police. But be quiet about it. You know how the mayor insists on dodging attention, and I don’t want to be the one to bring it down on his head. Especially when I can’t be certain what exactly has happened here.”

The carriage door opened. Jekyll and the servant hauled him up between them and to the front door. Javert tried to get his feet under him, but he couldn’t coordinate them properly.

The door was unlocked, as Javert had left it. The two men manhandled him inside and onto a sofa in the front room.

“I can handle it from here,” Jekyll said. “To the police with you, now. Go.”

He waited until the servant had left, then bent over Javert’s prone form.

“As for you,” he said, loosening the restraints, “You’ve got your own role to play. Be a good man and do what you’ve always done.”

He gave Javert a little pat on the cheek, then stood and picked up his medical bag.

“Hello?” he called into the house, affecting an air of a good Samaritan. “Monsieur le maire?” There was a creak from upstairs. “Are you there?” 

“Doctor Jekyll?” Footsteps descended the steps, painfully slow. 

Jekyll stepped aside, blocking Javert’s view of the staircase. “Forgive me for letting myself in, monsieur. But I was informed that you’d suffered an injury. I feared the worst.”

“Ah.” There was a long, pregnant pause. “You heard about the incident with the cart, I see. I appreciate your concern, doctor, but I only suffered a few scrapes and bruises. It’s hardly worth your attention.” 

“I’m relieved to hear that.” Strange, to hear such a smile in Jekyll’s voice. “Are you certain I couldn’t look you over, though? For my own peace of mind.” His voice grew harder to distinguish as he moved away, and the mayor’s footsteps dragged after him, the limp pronounced in his exhaustion. “Are you in pain? I have something here that might help with that, let me take a look--”

Javert’s eyes shot open. 


 No. 


His tongue felt glued to the roof of his mouth. He tried to sit up, but sagged back again.  

He struggled as much as his tranquilized muscles would allow, urging his body to remember how to move.

He could still hear their voices faint from the other room, but the words were too muffled to hear. In their place, other words rang sharp in Javert’s ears, echoed by a steady roar.


 Sometimes he seems more an angel than a human. Could you even imagine the darker side of such a man? 


He didn’t know if the serum would turn the mayor into 24601, or something as foul as Javert became, or if it would transform him into something worse still-- but he knew what it would do to the man himself. The one who strove to be generous and kind, the one who dismissed every fault against him with determined forgiveness, the one who repeatedly put himself in harm’s way for the people who least deserved it. That man would wake from a stupor and realize his most hideous impulses had been unleashed. 

It would destroy him utterly.

That couldn’t be allowed to happen.

Javert couldn’t let it.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Here.” Jekyll held out a glass and pressed it into Madeline’s hand. “This should speed your recovery. God only knows, after the day you’ve had, you need it.” 

Madeline took it, too weary to find the polite words to refuse. The red wine was from his own supply, though it had been dyed almost purple with the addition of whatever tincture Jekyll had added to it. “What is it?”

“My own blend,” Jekyll said. “Compounds derived from frankincense and white willow and ginkgo leaf, among others. Perfectly safe, of course– I frequently take it myself.” 

Madeline nodded absently, if only to mollify the other man's concern. After he’d regained consciousness, he’d barely had the chance to redress his wounds and change into clean clothes before he’d heard Jekyll coming inside. Javert, by then, had been long gone. How long did he have before Javert came back with the entire police force in tow? Would it be safe to collect Fantine and Cosette before Madeline ran, or would his presence only put them in danger? By now the bank would be closed– his money would be forfeit, but he’d hidden enough of it in the woods over the years to sustain him– he should be able to retrieve it, once the initial chase had cooled. 

But first, he had to get rid of Jekyll.

He raised the glass to his lips with a sigh– and then froze. 

It smelled bitter– not the comfortable bitterness of the wine, but something harsher, sharper, more familiar. He tipped the glass just enough to wet his lips, just to get a taste: and yes, he knew that flavor. He’d tasted it that first time Javert had kissed him, freshly mad from Hyde’s poison.

He felt Jekyll's eyes on him, intent and unblinking, and he pretended to swallow a sip. "Is something the matter?"

Jekyll flashed a self-effacing smile. "I must admit you fascinate me," he confessed. "Ask anyone in this town, and they will name you a paragon of virtue. An angel made mortal.”

“People exaggerate," Madeline said stiffly.

“They do. The truth is always more complicated than that, isn’t it? Those scars on your back, for example, would suggest a more violent history…" He waved a hand as if to clear the air, but he was leaning forward on his haunches. "But that’s behind you. You’re a different man now."

"I am.”

"Still, it must be difficult, forever suppressing the memory of that other self. Do you ever fear he might resurface?” 

“No, I don’t.” Madeline set the glass down on the table at his side. “Though I can understand the concern, given what you’ve put in my drink.” 

“What?” Jekyll's expression froze in place, and in the sudden stillness it looked utterly artificial: a mask set askew. 

"Did you really think I wouldn't notice?"

Jekyll gave a good-natured shrug. The mask shifted back into place, but it was changed somehow for having been observed. "To be truthful, I didn't expect your notice to come up. I had it on good authority that you were quite finished for the night."

So he'd spoken to Javert. A pang of worry jolted through Madeline, but he pushed it away.  "You intended to administer it while I was unconscious."

"It would have made things more tidy," Jekyll confessed. "But it's no matter. The current turn of events will serve just as well. Because there aren’t merely scars on your body, are there?" His smile widened to the limits of politeness. "You might have been able to pass off those lash marks as evidence of a history at sea-- God knows the English navy has left more than a few mutilated souls in its wake. The collar marks might be harder to explain, but your fortune was built on your creativity-- I'm sure you could come up with something.” He tilted his head like a snake before its prey. “But I’m told that galley slaves are also marked with a brand. That, I think, might prove difficult to disguise.” 

Valjean froze.

“You are going to cooperate with me," Jekyll said, "or else your secret becomes public knowledge.”

“You intend to blackmail me.”

“If you must be crass about it. I understand that in this country, the penalty for recidivism is a life sentence– or execution.” His eyebrows rose in a look of sympathy that could almost pass for sincere. “But I don’t want it to come to that, truly. In fact, I’ve grown very fond of this town, and everything you’ve made of it. In your care it has thrived-- and I suspect, if you’re discovered, it will crumble around its rotten heart. This place will be plunged back into poverty and squalor. And that woman you’ve just saved, with the little girl– what will become of them without the aid of their benefactor?” 

“You make an excellent point.” Valjean turned, very slowly, toward him. And for the first time in years, he allowed the light to leave his eyes entirely, and leave in in its place the darkness of the pit. “So tell me, Jekyll, why shouldn’t I just kill you here?”

“And there he is: Prisoner 24601 shows his face at last.” Jekyll sat back, unconcerned. “Which is why I’ve already sent for the police. Tell me, did any of your fellow inmates ever explain to you how to hide a body? It takes quite some time, by my experience. Far longer than you'll have before the constables arrive. Either way, they’re going to find out who you really are-- unless you agree to my terms.”

Valjean stared at him, unseeing. He could run. He could bring Hyde down and run, now, and maybe he’d have enough of a head start to escape the police.

Maybe.

Maybe.

But he was already beaten down and exhausted, and his mind fixed on those other escapes-- fleeing through mud and brambles, with the slavering guards of Toulon baying at his heels, sniffing him out at every turn. He’d never made it far, even with his best-laid plans, even at the height of his strength.

And now?

Now they would bring him back. A few short years of breathing free air, and he would be shackled and chained and dragged back to the galley.

“Fine,” Jekyll said, annoyed. “Clearly you’re struggling to decide, so let me add to my offer: do as I say, and I put Hyde on a leash. His chaos will be… reduced. Contained.”

“Ended,” Valjean said, the word falling like a stone. “I want him gone.”

“Ended, then.” Jekyll waved a hand, as if signaling to a lawyer to amend a contract. “Your people will be safe from him. You can lift the curfew. You can be the savior of the town once again, only this time you can do it without all that unpleasant attention you hate so much. All you have to do is drink.”

Valjean looked over.

One drink.

Javert had spoken of containing himself in a jail cell. Valjean didn’t dare make use of the police, but if he could construct a cage for himself here-- fit bars into a corner of the cellar and lock himself inside if he thought it might come on-- give Fantine the key and have her promise only to let him out if he was himself again--

If he was careful, if he was precise, he might be able to endure it. At least a half-life on parole would be better than a slow death in the bagne. 

There was a crash. 

Javert stood in the entrance of the room, his body half slumped against the door frame for support. His face had that now-familiar oily sheen, his features contorted with the serum madness; his eyes were clouded, but behind that smoke they burned. Through what seemed to be sheer force of will, he dragged himself closer.

“Javert?” Valjean rose to his feet. “Javert, what’s happened to you?” 

“That would be the sedative,” Jekyll said, unconcerned. “I thought it might wear off by now. He took it willingly, if you’re wondering. Just after he told me about how he attacked you.” 

A cold realization dawned on Valjean then. The police was on its way; if he took the drink now, they would arrive to find him in the same state Javert had been in on that first night, writhing in agony and out of his mind. They would know instantly that something had happened-- the only question was who had committed the crime.

“You intend to put the blame on him.”

“As I said, he’s already confessed to breaking in here and assaulting you. It would hardly be a stretch of the imagination for him to poison you as well.”

Valjean's gaze hardened. “Leave him out of this.”

“It’s too late for that, I’m afraid. He already knows too much.” From inside his coat he drew one of Javert’s pistols. “He’ll ruin us both if he gets out. Inspector Javert isn’t leaving this room alive.” 

Valjean stepped between them, the pistol aimed cleanly at his breast. “Find another way.” 

“You don’t really think you can swear him to secrecy, do you?” 

“He’s already kept the secret of his own actions. He can keep another.” 

“Which only shows how little you really know him.” 

Valjean felt Javert’s hand close on his shoulder, clinging with a monstrous grip-- inhuman strength, but with a drunken man’s unsteadiness. 

“Stand aside, monsieur le maire,” Jekyll said, his agitation rising. “It does you no good to die for him-- you know that, don’t you? When they prepare your body for burial, your secrets will be revealed. Everything you built, everyone you tried to save, will follow you into ruin.”

“Then find another way.” Valjean stepped closer, cold as stone. “If you harm him, you destroy any hope of my cooperation. I’ll gladly wait for the police to come. You and I can go to the bagne together-- we might even walk on the same chain.”

Hyde pulled back the hammer of the pistol. “Or I can kill you both before they arrive.” 

“Then I recommend you aim carefully.” Valjean stepped closer still, and the barrel of the gun pressed against his sternum. “Because my fellow inmates did confess one thing to me: just how much strength can remain in a man after the bullet strikes him." He needed only to reach out to seize Jekyll by the throat. One wrenching grip was all it would take to crush his windpipe, to snap his neck. One moment was all he would need. "Take your shot, Jekyll. I swear by God you won't take a second.” 

The moment stretched between them, tense as a garrot-- and then Jekyll rolled his eyes.

“You’ve made your point already; there’s really no need for the melodramatics.” Still he didn’t lower the gun. “Fine. We’ll add him to the bargain. Take the serum, and Javert will be permitted to live. We can work out the specifics after the police have taken their leave.”

Valjean had timed, with the meticulous care of the rightfully paranoid, how long it would take the police to reach this house from the prefecture. Twenty minutes, if the matter was urgent and they were on horseback. Longer, if they weren’t. But, as this was the house of a wealthy man, they would likely choose to hurry.

“You’re out of time,” Jekyll said, clearly reading his thoughts on his face. “Drag your feet any longer and you’ll lose everything. The only way you’re going to save yourself-- and this town, and him-- is if you drink.”

Valjean’s shoulders fell. What other choice did he have?

“Very well.” He turned back to the table, all too aware that in doing so he left Javert unshielded by anything but Jekyll’s promise. He would have to put his trust in that. He picked up the glass and lifted it to his lips, and prayed he was doing the right thing. 

Behind him, there was an inhuman snarl, the impact of flesh against flesh, and the crash of two bodies hitting the floor. Valjean whirled to see Jekyll and Javert caught together in a fury of tangled limbs. Jekyll tried with both hands to aim the stolen pistol at Javert, but Javert had chosen to redirect his attention entirely. With one hand he shoved the barrel toward the ceiling; with the other he rained down blows on Jekyll’s face, on his chest, on every inch of him he could reach. 

“Javert!” The wine glass shattered, cast aside as Valjean rushed to the fray. Before he could get two steps, the pistol fired, and for a moment there was nothing but the deafening report, the smell of powder, and the crack of fists against shattering bone. Valjean closed the distance between them, grabbed Javert’s shoulder, and pulled him back, to get him away from the gun, to get him help--

Javert turned to look at him, unable to rise, and for a moment he seemed almost like a child waking from a nightmare-- his eyes wide, his face pale, his whole body trembling with exertion and fear-- except for the gore that had splattered across his face.

The front door burst open then. Police poured in, all pounding footsteps and shouting orders, batons and pistols waving in the air.

They found them like that-- the upright mayor untouched by the carnage while his inspector crouched on the floor like a demon, his hands and clothes stained dark with blood.

Beneath him, the body of Henry Jekyll was barely recognizable at all.


 Madeline’s stomach sinks as he approaches his doorstep. The preparations are already underway. His lawyers have found a buyer willing to purchase the remaining shares of his factory. The king has accepted his retirement and named a successor. There are only a few minor details left before he leaves this place behind forever. A week, at the most. 



 He ought to tell Javert. 



 The pit in his chest only deepens at the thought. He hasn’t approached Javert’s door since telling him of his plan to leave. It’s cowardice, he knows: he can’t stand the thought of what else Javert might say to him-- or if he will elect not to come at all. Montreuil is still a danger to him, but he might find it preferable to the outside world if it’s absent Jean Valjean.



 Whatever his choice, Madeline will abide by it.  



 He procrastinates a few moments more to hang his hat and coat by the hook, then starts to climb the stair toward Javert’s room, but he stops before the second step: there’s a shadow in the front room. For a moment he thinks it must be the carpenter, come to sand away the bloodstains that were too stubborn to be scrubbed from the floorboards. But even when the thought crosses his mind, he knows it’s wrong. He would recognize Javert’s silhouette anywhere. 



 He approaches slowly, making sure to step on a creaking board to offer warning. Javert doesn’t look away; his gaze is fixed on the slight defect in the wall where a bullet hole was filled in, nearly invisible to all but his own exacting gaze. He’s grown pale from lack of sunlight, and once again he is far too thin, but he is alive and whole. 



 “It’s good to see you,” Madeline says weakly, “out of your room.” 



 Finally Javert looks his way. His eyes flick to Madeline’s feet and back up again, taking stock of-- of what, Madeline isn’t sure, anymore, but he seems not to like what he sees. 



 “I think I’ve been holed up in there for too long,” he says. “Sit. It’s time you and I had a talk.” 


It wasn’t murder. 

The lawyer Madeline had hired on Javert’s behalf had been intent on that point:  “There is neither crime nor delict, when the homicide, wounds, and blows, were commanded by the actual necessity of lawful self-defense, or defense of another person.”  And it  had been necessary. Even with the omission of certain details, he maintained that Javert had only acted after Jekyll had turned a pistol on him; the powder burns on Jekyll’s hand confirmed the story. But even if the law had no case against him, public opinion was not so kind. No matter the circumstances, he had beaten a man to death with his bare hands, and so he had been confined to a jail cell for the entirety of the period preceding the trial. His guards had told stories of him descending periodically into bouts of madness, when he would pace the length of his cell with his face contorted into a gruesome expression, ranting and snarling like a beast. Even in moments of seeming lucidity, he would maintain straight-faced that the mayor was a convict and he himself a rapist. The first accusation was dismissed out of hand; to the second, Madeline privately confessed that there had been a brief indiscretion between them, though it had been entirely within the bounds of the law. The newly appointed inspector agreed to keep the matter quiet, but as is the way of small towns, he never did forget.

And so Javert was set loose: insane, dangerous, but technically acquitted of wrongdoing. 

To the rest of the town, he was walking contamination, that sort of foul prophet who denounced crime wherever he perceived it.

Only one house still welcomed him, and it was the house he avoided at all cost, until madness forced his hand: the one whose floorboards he’d permanently stained with human blood. 


 Madeline sits in the front room, where he can fix his eyes on the Bishop’s candlesticks. They will be the last thing packed, and brought with him directly when he leaves. He hasn’t decided yet what to do with them, after-- if he’ll leave them to Cosette as a set, or if he’ll divide them at last, one to Fantine and one to Javert. He still has some time to make up his mind. 



 Javert paces between himself and the mantel, and the motion forces him back into the moment.  



 “What would you like to discuss?”  Madeline asks.



 Javert looks up sharply from his pacing, all accusation. “I want the truth.” 



 “I have given it to you--” 



 “No.” The word is too sharp, and Madeline nearly flinches from it. “No, you haven’t. You are a liar, Jean Valjean. I am certain that half the words that leave your lips are provable falsehoods; for the rest I lack sufficient evidence. But just this once– for once, since we have known each other– I need to hear you speak and know you’re telling the truth.”  



 “... very well.” 



 “Swear to me, Valjean.”  



Valjean blanches, but bows his head. “You have my word.”  



 Javert looks at him for several seconds more before he draws himself up, apparently satisfied, but it isn’t smugness that fills his eyes. Suspicion sinks away, and leaves only trepidation behind. 


 “Do you want me?” Javert says at last, and again Valjean fights the need to flinch. “Do you? Is this-- this thing that happens between us-- an act of charity? Do you tolerate my being here out of obligation?” 


 “I--” Valjean can feel the blood draining from his face. “Javert--” 



 “You gave me your word, Valjean.” 



 He did, and he damns himself for it. This is the one thing he could never dare to say. But Javert is right: this conversation is long past due. 


 “I will touch you only as much as obligation demands. I know you wouldn't come to me if you had any choice in the matter." He's made that clear. He would rather die by his own hands than be aided by Valjean's. "If I could help your episodes pass without touching you at all, I swear I would.  But I cannot– I will not– I know that to do more than the absolutely necessary would be to elevate this from duty to violation–” 


There is no more putting it off. There is only the plunge, the fall, and whatever waits below. 



“But I wish that I could.” 



He shouldn't-- God have mercy on him, he shouldn't-- it's meant to be a treatment, no more intimate than bathing the sick and injured. To take pleasure in this thing that causes Javert such misery is perverse. To hope for another episode-- to wish that agony on him just for the chance to feel Javert want him for a few moments-- it goes beyond selfishness.



It's evil.



He's tried so desperately to suppress that impulse within him, or at least to hide it, as if it might somehow lessen the sin if Javert didn't know the depths of his depravity.



But of course he knows.


He watches him now, utterly still.  


 It isn’t enough for Valjean to merely acknowledge the fault; it must be confessed.  



 “I wish that you would come to me because you enjoy my company,” Valjean says, his voice growing quiet. “I wish that you could welcome my touch. I wish you would condescend to be near me while in your own right mind. I wish--” He caves in on himself. “But I know that isn’t the reality of our situation. I will not ask you to give me what is already forcibly taken by your condition. I only hope you can forgive me for wishing otherwise.”  



 He waits for judgment to fall. Already he knows that it will hurt; it is only a question of degrees.  



 He can’t bring himself to look up, but the direction of Javert’s feet suggest that he is still looking his way. 



 “You are very fortunate to have Fantine as your housekeeper, Valjean,” Javert says at last. “That woman at least has the sense that you so sorely lack. But she can’t safeguard you from everything. And apparently, neither can I.”  



 Valjean’s brows furrow, and he almost dares a glance at Javert’s face. “I… don’t follow.” 



 “No, it seems you don’t.” Javert takes an aborted step forward. In any other man, it might look almost like fidgeting. “I have done everything in my power-- and tried several things outside of it-- to protect you. From Jekyll. From rumor. F
rom the defects in me. And I have failed on almost every count. I hoped sheer resolve might compensate for the weaknesses of my character--” 



 The response comes reflexively: “Javert, your condition is not a fault in your character.” 



T
his time he does dare a glance up, in time to catch Javert’s look of exasperation. 


 “Oh? And what would you call an unwillingness to deviate from my course?" he demands. "Or to accommodate this  infirmity  that I am saddled with? The strategy that I have employed-- trying to enforce distance between us-- isn’t merely ineffective, it’s proving detrimental to my cause."


 He isn't making any sense. 



 None of this makes sense. 



 “I-- I’m afraid I still don’t understand what you mean.” 



 Javert continues forward until he is standing directly in front of Valjean. His expression is stormy, as if he is fighting himself for every inch.  



 “I mean that your company is not unwanted,” he says at last, as he sinks to his knees at Valjean’s feet. “Your touch is not unwelcome. Your affection is not deserved, but-- I would like to be worthy of it. And I would like to reciprocate, were it freely given.” He looks away with a grimace, his face flushed red. “Damn it, this is easier when I’m not sane.” 



 It’s that struggle that gives Valjean permission to reach out. He cups Javert’s face with one hand to bring him closer-- slowly, very slowly, to give him every chance to pull away-- but he doesn't.



There is fear in his eyes, bordering almost on terror. But not aversion. Not disgust or disdain.


And so Valjean gathers his courage and  presses a tentative kiss to his lips. The kiss Javert returns to him is stiff and awkward, with none of the confidence or reckless abandon of their other encounters. But it is willingly given. And it is wholly, deliberately Javert. 

The next chapter is an epilogue of sorts-- and then I'll be posting a shorter side story about what comes next for these two beautiful dolts.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



The letter arrives late, as the last of the luggage is being fitted on the carriage. There isn’t much; Valjean prefers to travel light, the rest of their party have few possessions in total, apart from Cosette’s admittedly impressive collection of toys. She’s out there now, patiently assuring each of them of the wonderful time they’re going to have when they all reach Paris, while Fantine gives the last of her instructions to the driver. The postman sidesteps them both on his way to the door.



“Monsieur Madeline?” The door is ajar, and he tries to poke his head through the open door to see if anyone is still inside. He jumps back, startled, when instead of the retiring mayor he finds himself met by Javert. 



His hair is more gray than it was six months ago, his face more gaunt, and his starched clothes and greatcoat have no sign of a policeman’s uniform, but he is every bit as imposing as the inspector he once was. The clothes (courtesy, of course, of Valjean) will need to be hemmed to suit his current dimensions, but that will apparently be taken care of when they reach Paris. None of them intend to stay here long enough to wait for the task to be done. 



“Ah-- letter for Monsieur Madeline,” the postman says, shrinking under Javert’s scrutiny. 



“I can take it to him.” 



The postman shrinks back further. “My instructions were very clear.”



A call comes from deeper inside the house: “Is everything alright, Javert?”



“Only the post,” Javert reports back. “It seems you’ve received a letter.”



“Could you bring it in, please? I’m almost finished here.”



Javert gives the postman a pointed look, and the man finally surrenders the parcel and scurries away.



Javert turns the letter over in his hands. The paper is of a fine quality, with a texture he recognizes as signature of a certain stationery supplier in Paris. He recognizes the handwriting on the envelope, too, before he has the chance to read the name of the sender.



His chest feels tight as he brings it to the office, where Valjean is occupied wrapping one of his silver candlesticks in a soft nightshirt. Likely the other candlestick is already inside the valise, presumably safe inside that bundle of fabric visible through the opening. 



He looks pleased with his progress so far-- with everything about the journey's progress thus far, early as it may be. His eyes have a sparkle to them as he looks up, and despite his trepidation, Javert is struck with the urge to kiss him. 



He's making an effort to give those impulses their due consideration. He would rather engage with them consciously than let them fester into madness-- particularly if it will give Valjean those assurances he needs.



It’s only a quick kiss, barely a brush of lips against lips, but when he draws back he’s graced with the radiant warmth of Valjean’s smile. 



He has no idea what to do with that, so he thrusts the letter between them. “Letter for you from Monsieur Chabouillet.”



“Oh?” A queer expression crosses Valjean’s face then. “I’ll be just another moment with this. Could you read it to me?” 



That’s what that expression is, then. For a liar and a thief, he’s entirely transparent when he’s indulging someone else.



(

Indulgence

, Javert reminds himself. It’s a far more suitable word than charity.)



Valjean, too, is making an effort. It seems he's taken Javert's complaint about his habitual lies to heart; since then he's been far more forthcoming with evidence, sometimes about the inconsequential.



“Very well." Javert breaks the seal and begins to read.


 



M. Madeline,





It has taken far too long, but I’ve finally found evidence of the connection we've discussed.





Surely you are as impatient about the matter as I, so I’ll pass directly to it: several years ago, our Mr. Hyde brutalized a small child in the street in broad daylight, consistent with the behavior that you described. He was chased down by passersby and forced to make restitution to the girl’s parents to the sum of a hundred pounds, paid primarily by means of a cheque, which drew from the account of our very own Doctor Henry Jekyll. Upon my disclosing the Doctor’s death, I have also uncovered that he long ago named Hyde as sole heir to his entire estate, save the obvious distributions. All of which is evidence enough of their association, but one more has been brought to my attention: that Doctor Jekyll’s sudden decision to retire from London followed mere days after Hyde was witnessed in the act of murdering one Sir Danvers Carew. The fact that Hyde was spotted in M. sur M. shortly after Jekyll’s arrival cements it in my mind that he smuggled his associate across our in order to evade capture in their homeland. 





Regarding the rest, I am afraid what Javert told you may be correct: any accomplices the two Englishmen had within the local police force will have destroyed evidence of their association within days of Jekyll’s death. It is likely that they will never be tied to that conspiracy, but what you have already sent me will be sufficient motivation to begin an inquest into your prefecture. If these men would throw their lot in with one such as Hyde, they may indeed have committed other crimes that they’ve neglected to uncover. 



 


Javert sets the letter down. There's more, but he can't continue.



“‘What Javert told you might be correct,’” he repeats, as if the words will resolve themselves on the second reading. “What exactly did I tell you, Valjean? Until now I was sure that I remembered every moment that I spent under the influence of the serum, but 

apparently

 I was mistaken.” 



Valjean, damn him, is too accustomed to his glare to be intimidated.



"You made it clear just how pervasive corruption within Montreuil's police has become." Valjean carefully tucks the candlestick alongside its twin. "I felt it best to commit that information into the hands of a higher authority."



"Did you let him know that the information came by way of a lunatic?"



"In a manner of speaking." He rises from the desk so they are once again eye to eye. "I pointed out that your current ignominy allowed you to observe the misconduct directly."



"You told him it was a cover."



"I told him that you were working on my orders, without the knowledge of your prefecture."



There were certainly orders being given at the time, but they had less to do with the police force than with the state of Javert's undress.



Javert shakes his head. "There's no indication any of them were working with Jekyll."



"I think he made ample use of their behavior, whether or not they were aware. But I don't intend for them to face judgment for his crimes. Only for their own." He speaks steadily, but beneath the calm is an undercurrent of ferocity that sends a shiver down Javert's spine. If he had an ounce less restraint, a modicum less piety, Valjean might have passed that judgment with his own bare hands. 



Javert would very much like to feel those bare hands on him right now.



“You never mentioned this.” Javert sets the letter down. "Any of this."




“I did tell you that you would be welcome back on the police force in Paris,” Valjean says. “Chabouillet has already promised to give you his endorsement, should you wish to return.”



“But the rest–” An investigation into London would have taken months to enact. The correspondence, even longer. It would have had to reach back almost as far as Javert’s trial. “You didn’t say anything about it to me.”



"You've been prone to-- self-destruction," Valjean says very carefully. "I was afraid, if I said anything before the case was secure--" He ducks his head. "
“I wasn’t certain how you would take it."



Javert shuts the office door. 
“I think you’ll find there are some things I can take rather well.” The key turns in the lock. Satisfied that they won't be disturbed, he finally turns to face him. “In fact, there’s one I’d like to take right now.”



“Javert!” A gorgeous flush rises to Valjean’s cheeks. “But we’re about to leave–”



“All the more reason for it to be now.” Javert sinks to his knees at Valjean’s feet. His hands are already sliding to the buttons on his trousers. “We have a long trip ahead of ourselves in mixed company. I’d rather not spend all that time distracted by how badly I want to suck your cock.” 


The contents of the letter are pretty much a summary of Robert Louis Stevenson's book-- which folds neatly into my interpretation that Henry "Harry" Jekyll wasn't nearly as swell a guy as he was believed to be (or as the musical, etc, tend to portray him, much as I love it)