Title: Lord, Let Me Find Him
Work ID: 49997563
Author: FangirlUnashamed
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Female Javert (Les Misérables), Crack Treated Seriously, Romance, Javert's Suicide (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
This fic is a result of me hearing "Stars" for the first time and thinking it sounded strangely like an obsessive love song.

Work text:


Estelle Javert always dreamed of rising from the lowly, dirt-streaked class of people she was born into. No matter if it took years. She didn’t want the circumstances of her birth to dictate what she was capable of doing in the future. And what higher station could there be than the police? It didn’t matter that she was female.



Estelle disguised herself as a man and trained to become a police officer. Her fellow academy mates exchanged plenty of jibes about how clean-shaven the new recruit always was, but Estelle didn’t let them get to her. She had to train herself to be hardened to any display of weak emotions if she wanted to be a good police officer.



Her hard work and dedication paid off. Her first assignment was to a prison in Toulon. Nothing big, and certainly not exciting or dangerous. She found a new hobby while she was there--she started watching the stars at night. Stargazing became one of her favorite things. However, stars weren’t the only thing Estelle Javert looked at.



One of the prisoners, number 24601, had stolen a loaf of bread, and was sentenced to five years. But because of multiple escape attempts, his time was extended to nineteen years. After all that time doing hard manual labor, this prisoner was ripped! Estelle had to admit he was good to look at. But he was a criminal, and she was an officer of the law. A relationship like that would be inappropriate, to say the least. She made herself focus on her job of watching over the prisoners. Never before had she found her work so easy.



The day came when prisoner 24601 was released on parole. “My name is Jean Valjean!” the man insisted when Estelle gave him his yellow passport, continuing to refer to him by his prison number. She was secretly glad to know his real name. It sounded musical, somehow. But all she said was, “Do not forget me, 24601!”



***



Years later, Estelle met the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer for the first time. His face was strangely familiar. “It seems to me we may have met,” she commented, trying to place where she could have seen the man before.



Monsieur Madeleine gave her a knowing look. “Your face is not a face I would forget.”



It took a while, but after seeing the mayor lift a cart off of a man trapped underneath, Estelle finally figured out why Monsieur Madeleine looked so familiar. She had met only one man who had such incredible strength, in Toulon. There was no doubt that the mayor must be the convict who broke parole.



Estelle pursued him to the hospital, where he was ministering to a dying woman. “Valjean, at last, I have found you.” She knew he would resist arrest, but she was unprepared for physical confrontation. Valjean swung a fist at her. She tried to dodge it, but it connected with her temple, and she collapsed on the floor.



When she awoke, Valjean was nowhere to be found. Frustrated and angry at herself, Estelle spent hours that night on the rooftops of the city. She gazed at the stars and wondered how she could have let 24601 escape. He had been right in her hands. But why was she so intent on capturing him? Was it only because he was an escaped criminal, or…



Estelle tried to convince herself that she had no ulterior motive in pursuing Jean Valjean, or as she was set on calling him, 24601. He was a convict, she was a police officer. It would not be right. Why did things have to be this way? Things could have been different, if only he had not been a criminal and she had not been prefect of the police.



In all her musing, Estelle hadn’t noticed how close she had wandered to the edge of the building she was on. She stepped down just in time. Looking across the street at the Notre Dame cathedral, she made this vow. “I shall never rest until we come face to face.” For what purpose, she was still unsure. For now, she would just take things one step at a time.



***



He couldn’t evade her forever. But when they again encountered each other, their positions were reversed. She was tied up and defenseless, and her life had been given into his hands. But he took a knife and cut her bonds. He had freed her.



How could a criminal be capable of doing such a thing? Estelle was in turmoil. Yet even after sparing her life, he fled from her. He obviously didn’t love her. Estelle’s world was closing in around her.



She wandered to the Seine. She gripped the railing of the bridge tightly, then climbed on top of it. She looked up one last time at the stars. “I cannot go on!” she lamented, and then let herself fall into the river.
