Title: les courriers du cœur
Work ID: 50197888
Author: blisteryfingers
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Fix-It, Friends to Lovers, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Slow Burn, Canon Era, Javert Lives, Pining, Mutual Pining, Complete, Case Fic, Brick Characterisation
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Summary:
He did not know how to proceed. He was an unmoored raft, bobbing in the middle of the vast ocean. All his life he had anchored himself with the guidance of authority. As a boy, it was the criminal code. As a man, his direct superiors. After his fall, it was God.
What authority now, to dictate the actions of his poor old heart?
-
Post-Seine. Javert, hopelessly confused by his newfound feelings towards Jean Valjean, chose to heed a piece of advice from the papers and decided to keep some distance. But when Valjean disappeared, he realised his actions might have had consequences he'd never intended, or dreamt of.

Work text:

No self-respecting person with the slightest sense of their own preservation would dare to suggest that Inspector Javert, first class, well-known for his irreproachability, ruthlessness against criminals, recklessness in the face of danger, and complete disdain for all matters concerning the sentimental aspects of humanity, would ever be driven to cast even half an eye over the advice column of the newspaper where the female population of France sought out a stranger’s opinion on their love lives, domestic worries, and similar mindless drivel. In fact, rather than imagine such an impossibility, it would be easier on the mind to imagine a wild lion coming to heel, a beggar sitting on the royal throne, or a man walking on the Moon.

Such an impossibility, and yet.

Perhaps not so impossible for Javert, retired inspector, tentative owner of a newly reborn heart and recent convert to the feebler emotions of men such as kindness, mercy, even love – yes, perhaps such a man might find himself, on an uncharacteristically warm day in March, surrounded by the damp smell of sprouting greens, reading a letter of one Mlle L.L.B in the latest issue of Le Conseiller.


             ‘I am a wife in an unhappy marriage, in love with a man five years my junior. He has asked me to leave my husband, but I have not given him my answer. Do you think we could be happy?



             — If a wife, forgetting her duty to her husband, attempts to engage me in her favour when she is disposed to bid defiance to his lawful commands, I surely cannot show myself more their friend than by conveying to oblivion her own worthlessness…’


Javert scoffed as his eyes skimmed over the reply, which went on for a few more rambling paragraphs. The columnist, using La vieille dame as her nom de plume, seemed to be in the habit of doling out more generalised moralising and less actual practical advice. If you asked him (and no one was, to be sure), he would advocate for honesty – for the wife to come clean to her husband about her change of heart and be prepared for the consequences. Divorce, which had enjoyed its brief legal status after the Revolution, was once again abolished with the return of the monarchy. To elope with another man would render both of them outlaws.

He continued reading, still affecting an air of indifference, as if he were in fact perusing the obituaries on Le Moniteur. One letter from a girl asking if it was acceptable to go boating with a young man she’d like to know better had La vieille dame erupting in lamentation of the state of contemporary youth and their failure to uphold one’s sense of propriety. Another woman insecure about her looks was told in no uncertain terms to cease her indolence and self-indulgence. Sympathy was in short supply.

As Javert had never previously concerned himself with the female population beyond their potential for crime, he neither was aware of nor cared about the sort of domestic troubles they were involved in. However, he instinctively felt echoes of his old irreproachable self in those heavy-handed comments and felt discomfited.

Bah! He should cease this line of pointless ponderation. It was one new aspect of himself that he was in the early stages of comprehending – the ability to think, to imagine another, more merciful road, and to be conflicted by its conjurations. It was tiresome, and currently, he did not wish to be tired.

‘Why are you huffing and puffing at the poor newspaper? How has it offended you?’

A voice made itself known beside him. Javert almost gave a start, but his well-honed police instincts allowed him to calmly turn the newspaper over, so the subject of his previous scrutiny would not be known to his companion.

‘Nothing. Just despairing over the state of contemporary journalism.’

‘Well. You are reading Le Conseiller. I would have assumed you above publications that favour popular culture,’ Valjean – for that was whom the voice belonged to – replied, a hint of mirth in his eyes.

‘And you would have been correct,’ Javert grappled for an excuse. ‘It is not mine. I picked it up in the foyer. It must have belonged to either Mademoiselle Gillenormand or your daughter – although I hope for the former, for Cosette is certainly above this nonsense,’ he chose his words carefully and contented himself that none of what he said was untrue.

‘If you’re running out of reading materials, you are very welcome to my library. Or, I should say, Monsieur Gillenormand’s library. His selection is rather impressive. I’m sure you can find something to your taste. Perhaps we can even read together.’

‘Perhaps. But I’m not one for reading in general.’ Wishing no longer to continue with this topic, Javert drew Valjean’s attention to the rows of potatoes he had toiled over all afternoon. ‘Are you done with whatever you were doing?’

‘Yes, for now. I’m planting the first batch of potatoes, so they might crop earlier, in June or July. In two weeks I will prepare the second early potatoes; those will be good to harvest in July and August. These are called earlies and won’t keep for very long, but they have a more intense flavour that I prefer. Next month, we can plant the maincrop potatoes that will be slower to mature, but will store for longer and have their use in many more recipes. Or, if we’re so inclined, we can grow something else – I have been thinking of experimenting with one of those foreign chili plants; their spice is not something I’m used to, but Cosette finds them fascinating and wants them included in more dishes…Oh. I apologise. I’ve been rambling,’ Valjean’s speech petered out, the man himself sheepish.

Javert bore the rambling with little effort – in fact, it was even possible that he enjoyed it. He marvelled at the change a handful of months could bring about to two such individuals as they. The Javert of June of last year certainly would laugh or spit at his face for wanting to keep an ex-convict company. Then again, the Javert of June of last year would not choose to live to see another day.

It was only by divine intervention that Javert still stood here as a living, breathing man and not rotting away in some nameless watery grave. As he faced with an impossible choice to spare the saintly convict or to defy lawful dogma, as he stared down two straight roads leading inexorably from each other, he had thought his only choice to remove himself from the equation and to hand in his resignation to the law and to God both. For such was the only recourse left for an inferior who could not comprehend his superior’s actions.

Yet, it seemed like God would not allow his soul to retire just yet. He had sent Jean Valjean, who by all means should have stayed behind in number seven Rue de l’Homme Armé with his earned freedom, who instead had followed the mad inspector all the way into deep waters and delivered him from death’s embrace.

And much like a newly delivered babe, he had struggled and cried out from unwanted air, unwanted life entering his lungs, his soul.

What followed was an arduous few months where he had growled, had barked, had bitten, had made life hell for Valjean who bore the insults and kept him closeby. In the end, as even the hardest rock must wear down under persistent water, Javert too relented, if only by exhaustion, and eventually allowed Valjean to show him a third road, pointing away from the previous two. This was a more treacherous path, winding and covered with overgrown, a path that navigated between both duty and mercy, with no clear end point in sight. But follow it he did.

That road to Damascus had led him here, to this warm day in spring, where Jean Valjean sat beside him, feeling at ease enough to babble about horticulture. Where they might be able to look at each other and consider the other a companion. A friend.

Javert looked upon Valjean’s open face under the sun and felt utterly humbled.

Outwardly, however, he only grunted.

‘I do not mind it when you talk.’

Valjean smiled, patted Javert’s arm and turned to contemplate his garden, which had been given to him by Cosette when he moved in after her marriage. Javert’s survival and inevitable meeting with the couple had revealed how Valjean risked his life to save Pontmercy at the barricade. The boy had called him his father, the girl overcome by adoration, and they both had been so insistent in their demand to have Valjean join them in their house that he had no choice but to give in.

Still, Javert could see how the untold secrets of Valjean’s past weighed heavily in the other man’s mind. Such as now, when his eyes had a certain haunted and ashen look to them, as if he was not seeing the perfect Eden he was living in but the buried horrors of the chain gang of the past.

Javert sensed that Jean Valjean was up to something. But perhaps that was only the bloodhound instinct in him – one should not speculate so about one’s friend. After all, the only person who knew his real identity sat here beside the man, as tame as a cur, so what reason had he to fear any persecution?

Shaking himself out of his reverie, Javert turned to Valjean.

‘It’s getting late. I should be going.’

‘Already? Won’t you stay and have dinner?’

‘No. I’m needed at the station house tomorrow, and it is best I get an early start.’

Despite the letter of resignation he wrote on the night of his attempted suicide, he had not been completely dismissed from his duties. M. Gisquet seemed to be impressed by his honesty instead of seeing it as a personal affront, and insisted on keeping in touch to discuss the possibility of keeping him on as a consultant of sorts. Javert, in all frankness, found it annoying at least and taxing on his newfound conscience at most. He could not return as an inspector to be a mere tool of the law, and he did not know what else was even possible, but he felt he owned M. Gisquet at least to try. If Javert needed to commit a lie of omission every time they met by not bringing up Valjean’s existence, then so be it. Such was the being he had become.

‘Oh. Well. That’s unfortunate. Cosette told me the kitchen has prepared a rare delicacy – a recipe from the East, or so I heard.’

‘They have a lavish meal every day. That is the opposite of rare.’

Valjean let out a small laugh.

‘I thought it would be less taxing with you there. Marius had been trying to make conversation with me during these dinners, asking for my opinion on all matters on this Earth. He means well, but sometimes it is a little bit…’

‘Like an interrogation?’

‘I meant to say tiring, but if you put it that way.’

‘Well. Maybe next time.’

Valjean fell silent, picking at an invisible lint on his linen shirt.

‘You said that last time as well.’

‘I have been busy, Valjean.’

‘I know, it’s only…’ he paused, ‘Never mind. I am being silly.’

Javert sighed. ‘Out with it. Otherwise, the thought will get stuck in that mind of yours and you’ll be losing sleep over it again.’

Valjean scratched at his snow-white beard.

‘I just couldn’t help feeling that you’ve been keeping a distance lately.’

Javert didn’t know how to answer. So he stayed silent.

‘I shouldn’t have said that. I’m being selfish with your time. Put it out of your mind, please.’

Valjean pressed Javert’s hand where it lay on the bench between them. It was not clear whether he was trying to reassure Javert, or to convince himself of his own contentment. Javert glanced at their joined hands, neither moving nor looking the other man in the eye. At once, he stood up, mumbling the first excuse he could think of, and all but rushed out of number six Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire.

Javert didn’t know how to answer, because any answer he was ready to give would have been a lie. Because it was true that he had been keeping his distance. Because that was another way his life had been flipped on its hinges, another way Jean Valjean had shaken the foundation of his heart and soul.

*

If Javert had to pinpoint a specific moment when everything changed, it would have been a few months after Javert’s convalescence, when he woke up in the middle of the night, in the throes of a terrible fever dream. Yet, in truth, it started much earlier, a gradual and sneaky development like plants growing in rock crevices – when one noticed it, the rock had already fractured beyond the point of reparation.

Their easy companionship was not surprising, to begin with, by virtue of their fates having been so intertwined, each man being the only soul on Earth who truly knew the other’s history, who understood the other without the need for elaboration or explanation. Such comforts are precious for men such as them, who forever remained just outside society’s conventions and by proxy its protection. They were naturally drawn to each other like dogs naturally find their way home despite being left by the roadside in another country – or like emigrating birds, instinctively understanding which direction shelter from the harsh winter lies, even if they were born in the north and never knew of warmer climes. It was an inevitable attraction, in the way two planets fell inevitably into each other’s field of gravity, and to Valjean and Javert, it seemed the only outcome at the end of their long roads.

Javert should be grateful, no, indebted to the higher powers that such a thing could be possible. In all ways, it should be more than enough, certainly more than one as wretched as he deserved.

And yet.

On one typically cold winter night, after a typically lavish dinner at M. Gillenormand’s table which Valjean bore because of Cosette, and which Javert bore because of Valjean, they had retired to Valjean’s rooms for a typical nightcap. The wine flew freely, the conversation even more so. One drink quickly became two, two became five, and before they knew it, the clock had struck two, so it was only natural that Javert was invited to stay in one of the many guestrooms in the estate.

‘But before we retire, let me just finish explaining why being merciful is infinitely more difficult than being just, lest we go to bed with our argument still in my mind and I’ll find no sleep at all,’ Valjean insisted, and Javert, loathed to leave a debate half-finished, complied.

Much had to be said about the effect that a cold night and a warm hearth could render upon a scene – it lent to it a certain nostalgic, tender effect, bordering on the romantic, often found more in novels and rarely in reality. In the middle of Valjean’s speech – Javert forgot the specific details, blurred by time and drunkenness, and in any case, it wasn’t important – Javert was suddenly gripped by an insane impulse to fall on Valjean, to seize him, to pull him into his arms – that was to say, to kiss him senseless.

The intensity and abruptness of the thought left him physically mute.

Him, Javert, who had lived through fifty-two winters with an almost monk-like existence, who never knew a loving touch nor cared to give one, now wished to hold another, not in captivity but in tenderness? The world must have been turned on its sides – it might as well be for this ex-cop whose heart of wood had suddenly sprouted buds. He felt stirred to the roots of his being. He did not understand what was happening. His soul trembled.

As was the case with all great shocks to the soul, the soul at first will resist and reject, similar to how the body will reject a foreign object. After the initial blow that felt like centuries but in reality lasted only minutes, Javert resumed his outward composure as though nothing had happened. He had even managed to converse with Valjean further on the topic before both of them finally gave in to tiredness and retired to bed.

It was not until later that night, when the subconscious mind reasserted its dominion in sleep, that Javert realised the extent of his own depravity.

He had woken with a gasp, his shame burning and straining beneath the sheets like an adolescent. His first thought was one of annoyance. He hadn’t even had the grace to make this discovery in his own bed. Refusing to do anything untoward in his host’s house, he had no recourse but to keep his eyes shut and keep his mind away from thoughts of Valjean’s tender touches which still clung to his sleep-addled brain.

*

To his dismay, sleep did not return. That state of being feverish dogged him even in the light of day as he trudged through his routine only by sheer force of habit.

That morning, Javert walked the streets of Paris, following familiar streets where he used to patrol, his legs seeking out familiarity while his soul was pitted into a foreign land. Without realising it, he had found himself at the parapet of the Pont au Change, overlooking that terrible stretch of current that almost took his life. His instincts seemed to understand the similarity of the two revelations that had occurred in his soul.

The revelation of conscience brought him anguish. The revelation of love brought him fear.

Yes, him, Javert, who had never been afraid. Not when he stood facing a gang of thieves and murderers, not when he was tied like a dog facing the gun barrels of suicidal schoolboys, not when he was plunging headfirst into the Seine’s unfathomable depths. He was not afraid even when his resignation to one superior was turned down and his life was saved by another superior – that was to say, Valjean.

Yes, him, Valjean, who was his superior in all ways, to whom he owed a begrudging debt of life. The same man who was now the unwilling subject of this alien feeling in his breast.

Javert had never been a coward. Yet, he cowered under the intensity of this emotion. He dared not, could not name it. Merely lust? Certainly not. He had not much experience, but whatever he felt seemed to go much deeper than that, so deep it was cleaving him in two.

Yet, it was unconscionable. They were not equals. Before, they had been the jailer and the convict. Now, they were the saint and the repentant sinner. Who had ever heard of the mutt eating at the same table as the master, or the snake playing housewife to the eagle?

Not to mention how Valjean himself might look at him if he knew. For there certainly was no question of reciprocity. He could not imagine Jean Valjean being prisoner to carnal desires –even if he were, Javert knew himself was no great beauty of the age to turn a saintly love into something more earthly. So, it was natural to assume that if Valjean knew, he would be at worst discomfited and at best pitying. Neither of which was welcome.

An unfamiliar pang shot through his threadbare heart. On closer inspection, Javert realised it to be heartbreak.

He knew to crave such things from Valjean was wrong – worse, it was ungrateful. Yet, he could not help but yearn. Even now, as he stared into the glittering river below, rippling with a million shining pearls – so different from the dreadful swirls of the night – his body ached to be near Jean Valjean, to draw him into his arms and take comfort in his proximity, to hear his voice and feel a measure of redemption granted to him at last.

At the same time, a part of him was saying – was it not so strange, for one to develop such feelings of tenderness to one’s saviour and benefactor? His soul was Valjean’s, why not his heart? Did the most devout believers of the church not devote their entire lives to their faith out of love for Christ? Javert laughed. Perhaps not, unless these devoters also wished to clasp Christ into their breast and do impure things to his body.

He did not know how to proceed. He was an unmoored raft, bobbing in the middle of the vast ocean. All his life he had anchored himself with the guidance of authority. As a boy, it was the criminal code. As a man, his direct superiors. After his fall, it was God.

What authority now, to dictate the actions of his poor old heart?

*

Javert dragged his feet along the Quai de la Greve, eyes unseeing. He stopped by a newspaper stand and mumbled to the seller the name of a newspaper. It was Thursday, and on Thursdays he was wont to rent a newspaper in an effort to remain engaged with current affairs. He thought he had named Le Moniteur or La Gazette, but the turmoil in his head was translated into a petrification of the tongue; the newspaper seller heard ‘Le Conseilleur’ – a new periodical dedicated to women’s interests. The seller doubted it would be of any use to the grim-looking gentleman before her, but she was practical. A customer was a customer, so she handed it over in exchange for a sou.

That was how Javert later found himself, not reading about the upcoming trials of the captured insurgents as he had hoped, but instead about the domestic woes of young Parisian mademoiselles. He would have immediately shut the newspaper if his eyes hadn’t happened to glance over the advice column:

             ‘I find myself in deep distress. I have longed for the favour of a dear friend, but he remains indifferent to my feelings. Should I reveal my emotions to him, or bear this burden in silence?


             —  Even in matters of the heart, one must conduct oneself with grace and dignity. I must firmly advise against expressing your unwanted intentions to this gentleman, for such an action exudes impropriety and desperation. It will undoubtably damage any chance of further friendship. If he had not expressed any interest by this point, it is clear his heart is untouched by affection. Keep a respectful distance and devote yourself instead to moral duties of the soul…’


Harsh and bracing words, if bordering on prudishness. Any person of sane mind would realise that the advice was not given in the interest of the individual, but of maintaining social norms imposed upon the vulnerable by those in power. However, to Javert, in his frightful state, the words seemed to echo his exact thoughts of just minutes ago. It was an unfortunate human tendency to interpret information given to them in such a way that aligned with their previously held values. Much like kindle to a fire, it confirmed, amplified, and expanded, until what began as mere thought grew so immense it might as well be one of God’s commandments itself.

Javert was never anything but a good obeyer of commands.

He closed the newspaper, decision made. This would be what he shall do – to keep a respectful distance, and to be so irreproachable in his friendship that he should put even the most pious monks to shame.

*

That was January, and it had already become March. In those two months, Javert had had many close calls where his resolve was truly tested. A previously blind man, once cured, cannot revert to his old state no matter how much he might wish for oblivion. What once were innocent actions – a touch on the arm, a brush of the sleeves, a smile that lingered – now brought much torture to Javert.

The morning after their talk in the garden, Javert received a gamin at his door with a note from M. Fauchelevant.


             Would you like to take a walk later? – U. F.


Javert felt his heart constrict from those simple words and hated himself for it. What a fool – once so grand, so terrifying, now brought so low by a mere note! He already knew how he must answer, but for a moment he allowed himself the satisfaction of being seen and the fantasy of being wanted. Those were heady feelings, more lethal than the ambrosia of old. Javert savoured them for minutes before stamping down on them like one does an unwanted insect.

He took out a blank piece of paper and scribbled,


             Not today. My apologies. – J.


The note sent off, he steeled himself for the day ahead. He would not be able to stay away for long any more than magnets of opposite poles could not reject each other – but this would do for now.

It must.

Javert arrived at the Prefecture of Police on the Île de la Cité at exactly ten minutes to nine, the hour of his appointment with M. Gisquet. It was not the first time he was here since the rebellion, yet he couldn’t help but be ill-at-ease. He must have cut an imposing figure, with his long dark coat and tall hat, a befitting presence for an inspector of the law, but inappropriate for a peaceful citizen. He made his way inside the grand wooden entrance, where some members of the gendarmerie were milling about.

‘Inspect- I mean, Monsieur Javert! You’re meeting Monsieur Gisquet again today?’ a man called out, a fellow inspector – Javert thought his name was Allard. He paused, gave the man a nod, but otherwise proceeded straight inside the building where his former superior held office.

‘Javert. On time as always,’ M. Gisquet said, by way of greeting.

‘Monsieur le Préfet.’

‘Sit down. I will not keep you long. Look, we have a few robbery cases coming through that I need your eyes on. You have heard of the incident at the house on Rue Servadoni? It ended with a man being stabbed. He won’t last the night. So this has become a robbery-murder case. We suspect a gang is behind it. They might be targetting similar households in the vicinity –’

Javert had not sat down.

‘Monsieur le Préfet. Before we begin, I must once again restate my reservations about this arrangement. I am wholly unsuited for police business. By involving one who is in an unstable state of mind, you risk the success of any case you present to me. It is my desire to be dismissed from duty completely.’

M. Gisquet sighed. ‘I heard you well the first time, Javert, and I do not want to repeat my answer, but I shall,’ he said, directing his eagle-sharp eyes at Javert. ‘I need you, not least because I appreciate a subordinate who occasionally questions things with an eye to improve them. I would choose that man over ten others who carry out orders blindly without ever asking why. Your experience and talent for capturing the criminal element are also invaluable, especially during this time. You know well how understaffed we are. Now, I’m aware of your objections, that’s why I am only bringing you in to consult, and only on clear-cut cases. Even you won’t argue that a robber-murderer deserves the guillotine?’

‘I have said my piece. If monsieur still requires my presence, it is not for me to say otherwise.’

‘I am not forcing you to be here, Javert. Stay if you want to help right the wrongs that have been committed on the citizens of this great city. But if not, you’re free to go.’

It was a familiar dance that the two of them had played at ever since Javert was called back into this begrudging service for the law. Even if it weren’t, Javert thought it would take all of his strength to accept such a casual dismissal. In a way, he considered it a part of his penance.

‘I will stay.’

He sat down at least, and they talked police business for hours afterward.

It was a painful and difficult thing indeed, for the wood to learn how to bend.

*


             The market is selling seeds for the next season. Accompany me? – UF.



             This rainy weather doesn’t agree with me. Especially on the injured leg from, well, you know from what. – J.



             Please take care of yourself. – U. F.



 



             The rain has let up at last. How are you feeling? Maybe we can visit the Luxembourg Garden. I have been missing it. – U. F.



             I thought it was something you do with your daughter. – J.



             We used to, yes. But I don’t wish to impose on her. – U. F.



             I have a job today. Maybe some other time. – J.



 



             Cosette is hosting a dinner party to celebrate Marius’s first win. You’re very welcome to join. – U. F.



             I am not a big fan of those gatherings as well you know. Besides, my meeting with M. Gisquet is later in the evening today. It might run late. – J.



             If your time frees up earlier, the invitation stands. – U. F.



 


And so it went on for a month.

None of what Javert wrote was a lie. His leg did become unbearable in humidity, his meetings with M. Gisquet sometimes did run late, and he had been taking the occasional odd job if only to keep himself in funds. His salary as an inspector had not allowed for much in the way of savings, and he refused to receive compensation from the informal consulting sessions with the police. The result: Javert became an incumbent of many posts: a night watchman, a gravedigger, even a librarian’s helper. The menial nature of these jobs did not rankle him. He considered these also part of his penance.

The back-and-forth missives continued until one day, when Javert was leaving the Prefecture of Police and saw a familiar white-haired figure hovering suspiciously behind a lamp post. His heart dropped.

‘Why in God’s name are you here?!’ Javert almost shouted, pulling Valjean into a nearby alley, praying that the shadows there would lend them cover from the unfriendly eyes of the police.

‘Good afternoon to you too, Javert.’

‘Are you out of your mind? Or do you have a death wish? Perhaps you’ve hit yourself in the head this morning. Else why would you willingly deliver yourself to the tiger’s den? Argh, you frustrate me, Valjean, I cannot understand you!’

‘I’m sorry to cause you distress. I was only passing by, and happened to remember you mentioning a meeting that ends around this hour.’

He did, in an earlier letter in answer to yet another outing invitation. Javert tugged at his whiskers.

‘I might be the only one who remembers who you are, but one simply does not loiter around a law enforcement establishment unless he wants to be approached by a gendarme. What would you have done if someone came to you and asked what you were doing?’

‘I would say that I was waiting for a friend, which is no more than the truth.’

Javert shook his head.

‘For a cunning ex-convict who’s eluded capture for decades, you can be incredibly dim.’

Valjean shuffled on his feet.

‘In any case, the worst didn’t happen, you are here, and I’m glad to see you,’ Valjean continued. The intensity of his gaze unnerved Javert. He realised he was still gripping Valjean’s arm in a vice-like grip. He released it like a burning brand.

‘How have you been?’ asked Valjean.

‘I am well. Busy, I told you. But I’d rather that than idle and wasting away.’

‘I wish you wouldn’t overwork yourself. If you need any help, I could…’

‘Let me put a stop to you right there. The last I need is more of your charity.’

Javert thought his words were harsher than the situation demanded. He fished for another topic. ‘And you? How’s…how are the potatoes?’

‘You remembered,’ Valjean brightened, his smile like the sun. ‘They are growing quite well. We harvested our first earlies. You can come over and try some. They make for a rather excellent salad.’

The silent invitation hung heavy between them.

‘I will. Just not today. I’m rather tired. I’d like to retire early,’ Javert said.

‘I see. Another time, then.’

This was why Javert preferred to give his excuses on paper. Face-to-face, he felt like he was committing a trespass by upsetting this saint of men.

‘I will drop by tomorrow if you truly wish for my company. Although promise me you will not try to catch me at the police headquarters again. It is bad enough I’m lying by omission to Monsieur Gisquet every time I meet him. I do not want to start lying in earnest if he starts inquiring about the strange old man in my acquaintance.’

Valjean frowned. ‘I never asked you to lie for me.’

‘By omission. It’s not a hardship.’

‘For you, Javert? You who once decided to die rather than to confront your superiors? I find that impossible to believe.’

The reminder of that particular unpleasant episode rankled him.

‘What do you suggest I do? Come up to the Préfet and proclaim: Monsieur, I have been meeting with an old jailbird on the run, have been gardening with him; we have eaten at the same table, have taken walks like an old couple – but do not mind me, let’s talk police business?’

‘It’s never my intention to put you in a difficult situation! If you think that you have done wrong by letting me go free…’

‘What nonsense are you saying? What sort of ingrate I would be if I arrest the man who saved my life?’

‘I did not save your life in exchange for mine, Javert.’

It seemed the more they spoke, the worse it got, and Javert did not know how to get out of this hole they were digging for themselves.

‘That is not what I meant – I chose this. Not because I’m grateful – yes, maybe a little – but also because it is wrong! You are the best man I know, and it would be an injustice if you were behind bars!’

Valjean’s eyes were glazed over as though he were looking through Javert.

‘Is this why you have been avoiding me?’

‘What?’

‘My company must put a strain on you. Perhaps it was easier if I was not here to remind you of the lies you feel obliged to make to your superiors.’

‘It’s – that’s not – God, you’re putting words in my mouth!’

‘Then why have I not seen you for nearly a month?’

Javert almost bit his tongue in his frustrations. Nothing but the truth would suffice, yet the truth would destroy everything.

‘I told you. I have been busy.’

‘So you did,’ Valjean turned away, his expressions obscured in the shadows of the secluded alley they were hiding in. ‘I am sorry. I’ll take my leave. Goodbye.’

A beast’s instincts can tell when a prey is getting away so it could make a desperate last leap to chase after it. Javert claws gripped at Valjean’s sleeve.

‘Valjean.’

‘Yes?’

Javert was not someone used to vulnerability. He was good at inflicting terror and knew the exact words to undermine an opponent. But to bare his soul like a pet might bare its underbelly? To give words of comfort and reassurance? Those were frightful to him.

His tongue felt like lead. He dropped his hand.

‘I will see you tomorrow.’

‘If you must.’

Valjean disappeared around the corner of the alley without looking back.

*

Javert had been pacing in front of the front door of number six Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire for a quarter of an hour like a dim whelp chasing its own tail. He prodded himself to just get on with it and knock already. But what if Valjean did not remember his promise to drop by and was engaged with something else? Was his company still welcome?

He was thinking in circles, and it was tiresome. Before he could decide on his next move, the door opened. A head full of dark hair poked out. It was Cosette.

‘Monsieur Javert? Can I help you? Are you looking for Monsieur Jean – I mean Papa?’

Javert wanted to die. Of course, the girl had seen him loitering out here like a vagabond and came out to investigate. He was lucky it was not the porter here to chase him away like an unwanted stray.

‘Pardon me, madame. Yes, that is, I told your father I would drop by,’ Javert said, then suddenly registered the way Cosette had called Valjean. ‘But why on earth are you calling him Monsieur Jean?’

‘Oh, it’s just a silly thing he has been insisting lately. He would call me madame, and I him Monsieur Jean, as though we were strangers on the street and not father and daughter! It’s all so terribly formal, and I don’t understand it at all! Oh I get so furious just thinking about it still. But he is a quaint man, and stubborn besides, so I let him have his way if it will make him happy.’

Javert thought this behaviour was beyond absurb, but refrained from commenting.

‘Anyway, Monsieur Javert, if you’re looking for him then I’m afraid you’ll be disappointed. He is not home,’ Cosette said.

‘I see. He must have forgotten our appointment.’

‘He left this morning – in a hurry, I might add – to the Rue Plumet house, without saying why. He has not been back since. I assume he is staying there for the night.’

‘I see. That is fine. I will come back another day,’ Javert said, and turned on his heels.

‘Monsieur Javert?’ Cosette interrupted. ‘We have not seen you for quite awhile. Is everything all right with you?’

‘Can’t be better,’ he snapped, but then chided himself for being rude to someone who was only asking after his wellbeing. ‘That is to say, I am well, madame. I have been busy. That is all.’

‘You know you’re very welcome here anytime.’

‘Yes. Thank you.’

‘My father – yes, for he is my father despite what he’s been saying to the contrary – doesn’t say it, but I know he’s been missing you.’

Javert raised his eyebrows.

‘He has?’

‘At the very least, he misses someone to talk to, whom he doesn’t feel the need to keep secrets from. Don’t make that face at me, monsieur, I know very well that he keeps things from me still. I wish he wouldn’t. I wish he would just realise there’s nothing that would turn me away from my love for him.’

‘I do not doubt that,’ Javert paused, searching for words. ‘It’s never his intention to upset you. He has his reasons.’

‘I know,’ Cosette smiled sadly, as though already resigned to forever being veiled from the shadows of her dear father’s past. ‘Still, it eases my heart to see him have a trusted confidante like yourself, monsieur. It is I who must thank you.’

‘I don’t deserve your thanks,’ Javert said.

His old guilt gnawed at him. Doubtless, the girl would not hold the same sentiment if she had known how he’d hunted her poor father and hounded her mother to death.

‘I should leave. I’ll come back tomorrow.’

‘I’ll let father know.’

Javert left towards the direction of his lodging, his thoughts full of the man and the girl whom he had wronged so many times before.

*

Good as his word, Javert returned the next day. This time, he was no coward – he knocked loudly on the door as though a man on a mission.

He had barely finished the first knock when the door flung open and Cosette dashed out, looking hopeful – then, when the realised it was Javert, she deflated.

‘Oh, it’s you, monsieur.’

‘Yes. I told you I would come. I am a man of my word.’

‘I’m sorry to disappoint you again. Papa has not returned at all since yesterday, and I’m frankly working myself up into a fright, thinking where he could be.’

‘He’s not at the Rue Plumet house?’

‘No, monsieur. When he still hadn’t shown up in the morning, I sent a note. When nothing came back, I went there myself. But the portress turned me away, saying she had not seen him. Where has he gone, then? And without telling any of us!’

‘Might he have stayed in another hideout – I mean, another house that he has?’ Javert straightened, his eyes sharpened, his senses fired up, and he latched onto the mystery like a hound with a scent.

‘There is the place in Rue de l’Homme-Armé, which you are already familiar with. We used to have another in Rue de l’Ouest, but we had moved out of it a year ago.’

‘He might have other apartments that you’re not aware of. Regardless, I think our best starting point is to go back to Rue Plumet and investigate this portress. She must have some inkling where your father went – or at least when he was there last, or if he was ever there at all,’ Javert rattled on, not even looking at Cosette anymore but at the potential hunt, at the intricate web that the old hunter in him was already spinning. It felt like going on a long journey, only to come back to your abandoned house and find everything exactly where they were.

Oblivious to Javert’s strange delight, Cosette continued, ‘I’ve known Papa to disappear to go on a trip for several days. Maybe this is one of those trips.’

‘Maybe. In any case, I will visit the Rue Plumet and try to confirm one way or another.’

‘I will go with you.’

‘Best not to. I have my methods, and they do not work as well with someone else next to me.’

Cosette didn’t seem convinced, but relented. ‘All right, if you say so. But were you to find out anything at all…’

‘You shall be the first to know.’

‘Thank you, monsieur. I’m indebted to you.’

‘Do not trouble yourself with it.’

Javert felt discomfited at the thought of this girl owing him anything, but pressed on. ‘Let’s hope your father truly only went away on an errand and simply neglected to tell you.’

*

Despite Cosette’s unease, Javert did not suspect any foul play to be the cause of Valjean’s disappearance. He wondered if it might have anything to do with their fight a few nights ago. If so, that would be fairly easy to resolve – he just needed to respond more often to Valjean’s invitation and make sure he felt secure in their friendship without revealing his own heart. A tricky needle to thread, but not impossible.

What concerned him more, however, was Cosette’s mention of this whole ‘Monsieur Jean’ business. Only Javert knew him as Jean Valjean – he was known as Ultime Fauchelevant to all others, including his daughter. Why then, the change? Was Valjean ready to speak of his past to the girl? Why then, the formality, him addressing her as ‘madame’? How long had this farce been going on? Javert regretted staying away for a month – maybe then he would have caught on to whatever Valjean was planning.

The next morning, he made his way to the Rue Plumet house and was there before the last street lamp was put out. Javert pulled himself to his full height and made himself as intimidating as possible before knocking. The portress was startled to find such a foreboding figure darkening her doorstep first thing in the morning, but he had no time nor patience to feel sorry for her.

‘Is Monsieur Fauchelevant home?’ he said, without bothering with pleasantries.

The portress looked at him from head to toe with an expression of a hare that had suddenly found a fox in its burrow.

‘Pardon me, monsieur, what business do you have with him?’

‘I am Javert of the police,’ he lied, ‘and what business I have with him is none of yours.’ Another half-truth for Valjean’s sake. Well, if he must.

It was difficult to think the portress could turn paler, but she did.

‘Monsieur Fauchelevant is not in at the moment. If I could take a message—’

‘Was he here at any time in the past few days?’

‘I- I can’t say…’

‘I think you can, madame. I knew he told his daughter he would be here. And indeed he was, else you wouldn’t be reacting the way you are, for he now resides at another address and has not had cause to be back here in many months. If you haven’t seen him, your first reaction would’ve been one of surprise and not fear.’

The poor woman’s face was now as white as a handkerchief.

‘Am I correct? I am. Now, you will tell me where he is,’ Javert crowded her, giving her his frightful glare that had broken stronger men.

She broke.

‘Monsieur, I spoke the truth, I can’t say where Monsieur Fauchelevant has gone! He indeed dropped by two nights ago looking a fright, mind you, when he has not been to this house in almost a year! He was carrying with him a valise I’ve often seen him with. But before I could ask him anything, he was already leaving – gone as quickly as he arrived, with only a word of instruction to tell no one where he was going, or whether he was here at all. And that’s the entire truth, monsieur.’

‘Do you swear it?’

‘I do! On my departed husband’s grave!’

Javert relented, if for a fraction. ‘Fine. Did you ask where he is going?’

‘I did, but…’

‘Where is he going?’

‘Is…is he in trouble with the police?’

‘I’m the one asking the questions.’

‘He mentioned something about visiting someone in the east. Maybe a relative?’

‘Well! Val- Fauchelevant is a provincial, after all.’

Javert considered the information and fell silent. After moments, the poor portress spoke up.

‘So…may I go?’

He blinked.

‘It is your house, madame, and it is I who should be going. And to answer your previous question – no, he is not in trouble. I am only a concerned friend asking on behalf of his daughter. Good day!’ He doffed his hat politely as if the entirety of the last few minutes did not occur.

And with that, Javert turned his back and walked away, leaving behind a flabbergasted woman who could not decide if she was relieved or angry.

*

Javert examined what he had just heard. So Valjean truly went on a trip, it seemed. The questions remained: Why? And why in such a rush? From the portress’s description, Valjean did not want anyone to know his whereabouts, even his daughter. Was he in trouble? And who might he be visiting in the east? He had no relatives nor other acquaintances that Javert knew of. Valjean originally hailed from Faverolles, which was south-west of Paris – and anyway all who might once know him had long perished. Or Montreuil-sur-Mer? That was in the north. What, then, was in the east…?

There was Montfermeil. Montfermeil was east of Paris, Javert was fairly certain. Could Valjean be going to that place, Montfermeil! What could he be doing there? The town’s name hovered in Javert’s mind like a ghost that was rather bad at its job. Javert only ended up with more questions the more he pondered the problem.

He must make the trip to confirm his hypothesis. But first, Cosette.

Javert headed to number six Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire where a porter admitted him in. Cosette was out, but would be back shortly. Javert elected to stand waiting at the foyer, wanting to make his report and be on his way as quickly as possible.

On a coffee table nearby were a few scattered newspapers in haphazard order. Valjean told him that the boy Pontmercy preferred to buy them instead of renting, claiming it was for his work. Sometimes one might also find a lady’s magazine in the pile, courtesy of perhaps Cosette.

Javert made sure no Basques or Nicolettes were around before casually flicking through the stack until he found what he wanted: the new issue of Le Conseiller. As Javert had too much dignity to rent it in public, he had resorted to catching whatever issue he could get his hands on when he visited Valjean.

Since a month had passed since he was last here, Javert was looking forward to reading what La vieille dame had been saying to the troubled population of France.

However, he had barely opened the first page when Cosette and Pontmercy burst in through the door. Javert quickly shoved the newspaper under his arm and turned around to greet them.

‘Monsieur Javert! How happy I am to see you. Do you have news for me?’ Cosette cried out.

‘I do. I have gained some indication of your father’s whereabouts, thanks to your portress. As for the next steps, I have some guesses, and will be confirming them after we talk.’

Cosette clapped her hands in delight.

‘That is wonderful! However did you manage to convince the portress to talk? She was so tight-lipped towards me…Anyhow, you ease my heart. Is there anything Marius and I can do?’

Javert glanced at the young man beside her. Pontmercy nodded.

‘Yes, Monsieur, if you need us to help with anything at all.’

He thought they would rather hinder than help, but kept the thought to himself.

‘No. But thank you for the offer. I can take it from here. I will take my leave now. The sooner I get started, the sooner your father is returned to you.’

Javert made his way to the door, but Pontmercy stopped him with a hand on his arm.

‘Monsieur, a word? In private, if you please.’ Javert raised his eyebrows.

Pontmercy cast a meaningful glance at Cosette. She huffed.

‘Oh, you men with your secretive talks. Fine, I shall go upstairs and leave you alone. But my prayers are with you, Monsieur Javert, that you shall bring Papa safely home.’

Javert nodded, and in minutes Cosette was gone.

Pontmercy began, ‘Right, then, Monsieur Inspector…’

‘Javert.’

‘Pardon?’

‘It’s Monsieur Javert to you. I am no longer an inspector.’

‘Of course, my apologies. I forgot. Oh, but I wish that you were one still! See, I have something that I need your help with…’

Pontmercy produced from his inner pocket a folded note and handed it to Javert. It read:

             Monsieur le Baron,


             I am in posession of a sekret concerning an individewal. This individewal conserns you. I hold the sekret at your disposal with the desire that I may have the onor of being useful to you. I will give you the simple means of ridding your onorable family of that individewal. You see, your so-called father-in-law is in fact a thief and an asassin. He is an ex-convict. I am well informed, and what I have to tell you is known to myself alone. It is an extrodinry sekret. It’s for sale. It’s to you I’m offering it first. Twenty thousand francs are all I ask. Of cours, there are others who will be intersted in this sekret also. I’m sure you understand the sanctewery of virtue could not cohabit with crime. I await good news from you.


The letter was not signed. But Javert felt certain he knew who penned it. His blood turned cold.

‘This…! Who gave this to you!’

‘A young girl delivered it to my doorstep three days ago. She refused to say who it was from – in fact, I never had a chance to speak to her nor see her face properly, as she’s taken one look at me and ran. Is this thief in the letter truly my father-in-law? What is this trickery, monsieur?’

‘There is only one thief here, and he is the sender of this cursed missive. I know him well. He goes by many names – Jondrette, Fabantou, Genflot, Don Alvarez, but his true name is Thénardier. You met him, I believe, in the episode at the Gorbeau tenement.’

Pontmercy paled when he heard the name. ‘Thénardier! The man who helped my father. I have been looking for him. But he was arrested!’

‘He escaped. Slippery as an eel, him and his gang. Did you tell Fauchelevant about it?’

‘I did. I showed him the letter. He claimed it’s a falsehood, so I gave it no more thought – after all, he is my saviour and obviously no villain – but then he disappeared, and I’ve been wondering if there was some truth in it after all.’

Javert made a frustrated noise. The ninny! He shouldn’t have shown it to Valjean and instead brought it straight to him.

‘I do not like this. Let me read it again,’ Javert said, eyes quickly scanned the page. ‘The scoundrel has not specified when he wants the money, or how it is to be delivered. Supposedly he will be in contact again. Amateur! This shall be his downfall. In any case, we can safely assume Valjean’s disappearance had something to do with this.’

‘Who is Valjean?’

‘Did I say Valjean?’

‘You did, just now.’

‘I meant Fauchelevant, of course,’ Javert groaned inwardly. It seemed it was now his turn to be a ninny. The situation was becoming stranger by the minute, and it had muddled his mind.

‘Is Valjean his real name? He asked Cosette to call him Monsieur Jean, which I found incredibly odd.’

‘It is not for me to say. You’ll have to ask him yourself.’

‘I see,’ Pontmercy said, his head dipping in thought. ‘I must admit, I don’t know how to proceed. I do owe a debt of gratitude to this Thénardier, even though I know his unsavoury character; he saved my father in the battle of Waterloo, you see, and my father’s last wish was for me to help this man if I could. I do not mind parting with the money, but there’s the matter of his accusation. How much of it is true, and even if I were to ignore it altogether, what else might Thénardier do with it?’

‘Whatever gratitude you hold towards him is certainly misplaced. He serves no one but himself, and he saves no one but himself. But I agree with your last point. This villain cannot be let loose. He must be found, and jailed. A pity that this is more a job suited to Inspector Javert than Monsieur Javert. But I will do what I can.’

‘Please take this letter, then. I don’t know what to do with it except to bring it to the police, and you might as well be it.’

Javert took the note from Pontmercy and put it in his coat pocket. ‘In any case, we must find Fauchelevant first. I will return with him, or if not, with news.’

He left.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Once outside the Gillenormand house, Javert stopped to pen a quick note to the cemetery where he worked that he was occupied today, and M. de Thury would have to find someone else to bury him instead. Then he walked to the Plat d’Etain at Cul-de-sac de la Planchette and took the coach there to Montfermeil – the same one he had taken to investigate reports of a girl stolen by an elderly stranger. He picked the back seat, sat down with his hat pulled low over his face, his chin sinking behind his cravat, his arms crossed in front of his chest, and he let his thoughts drift as the horse-driven carriage went on its way.

Javert suddenly remembered that he still had the newspaper with him. ‘I shall return it later, so it is not theft,’ he thought to himself and opened it. A man sitting opposite gave a curious glance at the publication’s title, but a death glare from Javert made the man decide he was more interested in the trees outside after all.

Javert expected to read about the gripes of a wife towards her husband or some such, but was startled to see that the querier of this issue was, in fact, a man.

             ‘It might be unusual for a man to come forward and ask for advice from this sort of column, but alas, my brain is bursting from indecision. My wife and I were in disagreement, and she has taken great offense to what I said. She now refuses to speak to me. How do I gain back her favour?

             — As ill-equipped as I am to give advice to a gentleman, perhaps I can lend some insight into the female mind which you may find helpful. A woman's sensibilities are delicate and volatile; she needs tangible demonstrations that you are truly repentant. Flowers and a ticket to a night at the theatre might not go amiss. Above all, keep in mind that you are still the master of the house and refrain from excessive displays of emotions, lest you lose any respect you may command…’

A surprisingly practical advice compared to La vieille dame’s previous responses. Was that truly all it took to win back the heart of a spouse? Flowers and a night at the opera? Javert felt content that he never had any need to engage in such courtship rituals.

His traitorous brain, however, chimed in. What would courtship between him and Valjean look like? No flowers and operas, that’s for certain. Then again, maybe flowers, for the man was obsessed with plants of all kinds, being of provincial origin. No ordinary flower, then, but something wild and hardened; an easily overlooked shrub that was at once common and magnificent. Or perhaps something rare, a diamond in the rough that bloomed even in the harshest of conditions.

His neck burned from the saccharine nature of the thought. He put a stop to it, shoved the newspaper inside his coat, and looked out the window. They were passing the stretch of forest that lay just outside of the town’s border. Moments later, they were inside Montfermeil. Javert knocked on the roof to signal the driver to let him off.

So. Here he was, in this blasted place again. Javert considered his options. Jean Valjean must be here, for he was a creature of habit, and there was nothing else of interest beyond this point. If he was here, then it must be for a reason, and that reason must have some relation to the reemergence of the villain Thénardier. Following that train of reasoning, his next destination should be wherever Thénardier’s old inn used to be.

Javert had a good head for streets and directions – one has to be in the maze of Paris. He instinctively remembered where the inn was, and let muscle memory be his navigator.

As he made his way through the town, he could not help but compare it to Paris. On one hand, a great cesspool of this age, a collection of extremes, a container of both the best and worst elements of civilisation. On the other, a forgettable town, a rural backwater with more trees than people, somewhat ugly but sufficiently charming, with nothing to separate it from the thousands of other similar villages in France. It was akin to the difference between a wolf and a lamb, and Javert had never had any interest in livestock of any kind.

That said, the air was fresh enough, and supposedly good for the lungs.

When he reached where the old Au sergent de Waterloo used to be, he realised that the inn still stood but had been rechristened to something much less ostentatious – simply, La jolie fille. The inside also seemed to be much more improved – a black board hung on the wall, listing out all the items on offer plus their prices. Whoever bought this hellhole from Thénardier at least had intentions to run a proper inn rather than use it as a front for daylight theft.

Javert found himself a table and ordered coffee with bread and cheese. He had not eaten since morning.

When the waitress brought his food over, he affected a casual air and asked, ‘Have you had anyone with the name Fauchelevant coming in here?’

‘What’s it to you, monsieur?’

The lass was a cheeky brat of no more than fifteen years. Javert thought to use his threatening glare on her, but decided against it.

‘It’s nothing to me, but there might be something for you,’ he said, sliding a coin on the table. The young girl snatched at it, but Javert swiftly closed his fingers around the money. He smirked. ‘Not before you tell me what I want.’

The girl huffed. ‘Whatever. No one with that name has come in anyway.’

‘He might go under other names. Ultime? Madeleine?’

‘First I’ve ever heard any of them.’

‘He is an old man, about sixty, with thick arms, broad shoulders, and a strong back. From behind, he looks like a man of thirty. His hair is completely white. He has a limp in one of his legs.’

‘Well…I don’t know nothing about his arms or his limp, monsieur, but there is a big old man with white hair staying in one of the rooms.’

A surge of excitement ran through him. His heart was beating like a drum. He was a hound that caught scent of a prey.

‘He travels alone?’

‘Yes.’

‘When did he arrive?’

‘Two nights ago, I think.’

‘Is he here?’

‘No, he went out early in the evening before the sunset.’

‘Did you see which direction?’

‘Towards the woods, I believe.’

Javert released the coin. The girl snatched it up and shoved it in her dress pocket.

He sipped his coffee in a state of near ecstasy. In the old days, he would have taken a pinch of snuff. It had been too long since he experienced the thrill and pleasure that a good chase offered. He tried not to compare this to the hunt of old: this time, he was simply finding a friend. There was no net to cast, no snuffing out to be done. But a habit drilled into one over the course of a lifetime was not so easily extinguished.

When the girl came back to clean his table, she noticed his gleeful manner and said, ‘If you ask me, I think the old man went to find the devil’s treasure.’

‘Pardon?’

‘It’s a tale people tell here. Sometimes, at nightfall, the devil appears as a man who is digging a hole in the forest. If you manage to stay silent until he’s left, you can run over to where the hole is, open it up again, and the devil’s treasure is yours. Also, you’ll die within a month.’

‘What nonsense! Devils aren’t real, girl.’

‘It is! Old Boulatruelle even met him twice; supposedly he almost caught him at the clearing called Blaru’s Piece. He wouldn’t shut up about it for a week!’

‘Who is Boulatruelle?’

‘He’s a road-mender. He’s probably off somewhere drinking right now; that seems to be his only past time. Used to be an ex-convict at Toulon, don’t you know?’

Javert was only half-listening to the whole devil’s treasure story, already discarding it as an old wives’ tale. His ears, however, perked up at the mention of ‘ex-convict’.

‘This Boulatruelle saw the devil in…Blaru’s Piece, did you say? Where is it?’

‘About half an hour from the edge of the woods through the beaten paths.’

Javert put the money for his meal on the table and sprang up from his seat.

‘Monsieur, are you going after the devil too?’

Javert flashed her a smile that was full of teeth.

‘I might.’

*

The moon was already high in the sky by the time Javert reached the trees. It was thankfully a clear night, with few clouds and bright stars. He could see the way well even in the dark. Javert pushed aside any reservations he might have about chasing Valjean through the woods instead of waiting for him at the inn – for there was no question in Javert’s mind that the old man the girl spoke of was his man. Javert had always had a penchant for the dramatic.

He followed the beaten track on the ground, which made countless tiresome twists and turns and took him deeper into the wilderness. The deeper he went, however, the darker it became, as the tall trees obscured the light of the moon and stars. He found himself tensing at the unnatural sounds of a forest at night – rustling, croaking, buzzing, clicking, scratching, snapping – a cacophony of haunting voices without a face. Javert quickened his pace.

From time to time, the path would split into two and three. Javert had no choice but to pick one at random and pray he wouldn’t get lost. The girl had made it sound so much more straightforward.

After what felt like an age and what certainly was more than half an hour, God seemed to have granted his prayers – the path finally opened up into a small clearing, screened on all sides by overgrowth around a heap of stones and a giant chestnut tree.

Javert stepped into the moonlight, glad to be rid of the darkness. The clearing was empty. He approached the pile of stones and looked around. Nothing seemed to be out of the ordinary. He walked around and inspected the large tree. There was a band of zinc nailed to the bark. He looked down and saw a half-dug hole.

He kneeled to inspect it.

‘What is this,’ he mumbled to himself.

Then a shadow fell over him. Before he could turn around, something hard collided with his head, and he saw no more.

*

Javert came to with a splitting headache. Without opening his eyes, he felt that he was lying down with his back on the grass and his head propped up on something soft. He groaned, feeling the bump on his head.

‘Careful. Don’t move just yet.’

Javert looked up and found Jean Valjean’s much sought-after visage peering down at him.

The snow-white strands of his hair framed his face, reflecting moonlight and shining like a halo. It was akin to seeing an angel of the Lord in a spring in the desert. Javert was momentarily awestruck. Then he blinked, his memories coming back.

‘I found you,’ he croaked.

Valjean smiled, if a bit bitterly.

‘It seems that I will never outrun you.’

Javert realised with a start that he, in fact, was resting on Valjean’s lap. The realisation should have unnerved him, but in his concussed state, he could not be bothered to move.

He instead elected to inspect Valjean closer. The past few days had not been kind to the older man – his expression was haggard, with deep lines etched on his face that were not there before. His eyes were sunken. It looked as though he had not eaten or slept for many days.

Javert wanted to wipe away the shadows from that saintly face.

‘Javert?’

He suddenly noticed that his hand had moved on its own to do precisely just that – reaching up to brush at the crow’s feet at Valjean’s eyes. He blamed his concussion.

‘You…hit me in the head,’ he managed, dropping his hand.

‘I’m sorry. I thought you were a stranger who meant harm. I only meant to knock you unconscious, but I think I overdid it with the pick’s handle.’

Javert sneered at himself.

‘And I deserved it. What am I doing, going into the woods at night…It was only providence that I didn’t get utterly lost like an imbecile.’

‘Does it hurt?’

Valjean’s hand was in his hair, prodding at the bump on his head. Javert closed his eyes. He was not sure if this was heaven or hell.

‘A little. But I’ve had worse. What were you doing out here?’

Valjean contemplated his answer. After a long moment, he seemed to have made up his mind.

‘Since you’re here, I guess I might as well tell you. For years I have used this spot as a deposit place for the money I earned as Madeleine. After I ran from the police at Montreuil-sur-Mer—’

‘Ran from me.’

Valjean smiled. ‘Yes, from you. I thought I might be recaptured, so I buried and hid the money in the forest of Montfermeil, knowing that if I managed to escape from jail, I would need to go back here to retrieve Cosette. That was indeed what happened, as you know. After we settled in Paris, whenever I required money I would come here to dig up what I needed. Last year, before her marriage, I withdrew everything to give her as dowry – I’ve only kept it for her anyway. Well, not everything. In the end, I decided to keep an amount for myself. To what purpose, I was not sure. Perhaps it was the fugitive in me that forced me to reserve some means of backup, in case I need to run. I split them between a drawer in the Rue Plumet house and this forest which had once again become my safe. I am here to retrieve that money now.’

Javert gave a sardonic laugh. ‘Only you would deposit money in a forest instead of with a notary.’

‘It was the best option for one such as I.’

Javert rested his hand on his forehead. The headache was subsiding, and he could begin to think again.

‘Did you plan to use the money to answer Thénardier’s blackmail?’

‘How did you…did Marius show you the letter, then?’

‘Of course he did. In fact, he should’ve brought it to me first. Then we wouldn’t be in this situation.’

‘I had feared it for awhile. I think I caught sight of him on the streets some months ago. I feared something like this would happen.’

Javert frowned.

‘Why didn’t you say something to me?’

‘I didn’t know how to bring it up.’

‘Well, you should have. Instead, you played the martyr and went away without telling anybody. You had your daughter worried out of her little mind.’

‘Did she really?’ Surprise and joy warred for dominance on Valjean’s face. He finally settled on something like wonderment. ‘She cares for me still, after all this time, even when she has her husband.’

‘Of course she does. She invited you to live with her. Does that mean so little to you?’

‘I’ve always assumed she’d tire of me eventually.’

Javert shook his head.

‘Sometimes you say things so removed from reality that a person just doesn’t know how to respond.’

Valjean took the insult in stride and said nothing. He changed the topic.

‘How did you find me, anyway? Imagine my surprise when I found you out here in the middle of the woods; I thought for a moment that you were an apparition of my mind.’

‘Just some good old police work,’ Javert said, then began to relate how he came to be there at Blaru’s Piece. By the end of it, Valjean was chuckling to himself.

‘I’ve never heard about this myth about a devil’s treasure! If I had, I would have picked a different place to hide my savings. I do know old Boulatruelle, or as much as one could know a fellow chainmate. He must have recognised me, then. Do people in the village think me some sort of Lucifer’s henchman?’

‘If they do, they would be mistaken. If anything, you’re more a manifestation of Zadkiel.’

Valjean lowered his head.

‘I don’t understand how you see me, Javert. I am not a saint.’

‘And I don’t understand how you see yourself anything but. But let’s not get into a fight right now; my head hurts too much. Let me just enjoy the satisfaction of having found you at last.’

‘As you should.’

‘I don’t think that’s ever happened. You’ve always slipped through my fingers at the very last. Do you have any idea what that does to a man?’

Valjean smiled.

‘Well, you have me now.’

There was a catch in Valjean’s voice that made Javert look up into those soulful eyes. His weathered face was slightly tinged with pink; perhaps from the cold air. His beard and hair glowed silver in the moon. Javert could see his Adam’s apple bobbling up and down as he swallowed. Ensconced in Valjean’s lap, he could catch his scent, so ineffable yet so uniquely his that it went straight to Javert’s head.

‘I owe you an apology,’ Javert didn’t realise he wanted to say it until he had. ‘For keeping away for so long.’

‘You were busy.’

‘Yes, well, I could have made more of an effort. Still, the fault lies with me entirely. Blame it on my bad time management skills, if anything. But you must not – you must never think it’s because I don’t desire your company. Because I do. By God, I—’

The words were gushing out of his mouth, unchecked, unrestrained, like a stream bursting out of a crack in a broken dam. He clenched his teeth to stop any more unwanted sentiment spilling over. His hand, a beast with its own mind, clasped Valjean in a tight grip.

Valjean turned his hand over to thread their fingers together. Their hands fit like pieces of a puzzle.

Despite himself, Javert’s pulse quickened, and he wished he never had to let go.

They stayed that way for a long time, content in the other’s silent warmth.

*

All good things must come to an end, however, and Javert could only use his concussion as an excuse for so long before his back was protesting from being on the cold hard ground and he had to get up.

Before they left the clearing, Valjean finished digging up the money he left in the hole – well-kept inside a box within an oak casket filled with chestnut wood shavings. Javert had never seen so many banknotes in his life. He was aware that M. Madeleine was a millionaire, and the price for a house in central Paris couldn’t be cheap. Yet, the physical evidence of the other man’s almost obscene wealth only brought into focus how differently they lead their lives.

They returned to the inn. Javert inquired about a room; to his dismay, there was none available. An unlikely situation for an inn of a suburban town of no particular importance, but apparently the owner was doing some renovations after an unfortunate flooding incident a week past.

‘You can stay in mine. I believe I got their last room,’ Valjean offered. ‘There’s only one bed, but there’s an armchair, and I’ve slept in worse places.’

Javert considered it for a moment and nodded.

‘Fine. We have no other choice anyway. Lead the way.’

The room was located on the second floor and simply furnished. As far as rooms went, it was as typical as one could expect – which was probably the highest compliment one could give to an establishment that used to belong to Thénardier.

Valjean took Javert’s coat and hat to put them away on the wall hangers. Javert spotted the armchair in a corner and took no time to make himself comfortable.

‘Javert? What are you doing?’

‘I’ll take the chair. You keep your bed.’

‘I won’t have that. You’re the one with the head wound. You need to rest properly.’

‘You make me sound like an invalid. I’m fine. It’s your bed, you paid for it.’

‘I paid for it, and I shall do with it whatever I want. And what I want is to let you have it.’

‘I refuse.’

‘I insist.’

They were two headstrong personalities; none willing to yield to the other.

‘Must we fight about this? I’m too tired; it’s been a long day. I’m not moving from this chair. If you want to remove me, you’ll have to do so physically,’ Javert crossed his arms and leaned further into the chair. Valjean gave him a look that was bordering on petulance. He sat down on the bed. Javert closed his eyes, satisfied that the conversation was over.

A few moments later, he heard some rustling, then the thumping sound of something soft and heavy falling. He opened his eyes again to find Valjean laying the bedspread on the floor.

‘What in God’s name are you doing?’

‘Since you’re in my armchair, I will sleep on the floor. Unless you take the bed, then I’ll have the chair, which you must also agree is more comfortable than the ground.’

‘Are you insane? For mercy’s sake, get back to bed!’

‘No.’

Javert was so agitated that he leapt out of the chair onto his feet. The nerve! The temerity of this man!

‘Are you so in love with being a martyr that you can’t even accept to sleep in a bed that is to all intents and purposes yours for the night?’

‘It is no trouble.’

‘By God, you’re the most infuriating man I’ve ever had the misfortune to make acquaintance of!’

‘I only want you to be comfortable, Javert, you don’t need to scold me like a fishwife,’ Valjean sighed and rolled his eyes heavenwards.

As if he himself was the one exasperated! Him! How laughable. Javert would shake some sense into the man if he believed that would make a difference. He bared his teeth in a joyless laugh.

‘Well, you may have the stubbornness of an ox, but I have the constitution of a mountain. Stay on the floor, then, if you love it so much!’

Javert all but threw himself back in the armchair. He loosened his cravat, tugged off his waistcoat, tossed both of them over the back of the chair, and yanked off his boots, all while mumbling about idiotic old men.

Valjean made a noise that sounded like amusement. Javert glared at him. He only smiled wider.

‘You are being childish.’

‘Says the child.’

‘You remind me of this time when I refused to let Cosette keep a pet mouse. Her reaction was rather identical to yours.’

‘Are you honestly comparing me to your daughter right now?’

Javert’s incredulous expression somehow only made Valjean laugh in earnest. He lay back on his makeshift bed on the floor, hands on his heart. His face relaxed and shone with mirth. He looked for the briefest of moments like the provincial boy who once had played with his sister’s children, who once had been free.

‘The world is upside down…’ Javert mumbled under his breath. Heat crept up his neck.

Valjean’s humour died down at last. He looked up at the ceiling, a hand on his forehead.

‘We are being foolish, are we?’

Javert’s lips curled up in a wry smirk.

‘I suppose we are.’

‘The bed is wide enough for the both of us.’

‘Seems so.’

‘We can share?’ Valjean asked, then quickly added, ‘only if you don’t mind it.’

Javert did not mind – the opposite, in fact. As soon as the possibility presented itself, he found himself desiring it more than anything: To have Valjean near, to feel his warmth, to lay with him, to have his breath on Javert’s skin, to be able to reach out and touch if Javert so wanted, to fall into slumber with Valjean as his bed companion, and in dreams, perhaps to even draw closer…

No. It was too dangerous. Does a thirsty wolf turn away from a stream in front of him? Does a beggar reject the piece of bread given to him? He would not be able to control himself. Valjean would know his secret, and their friendship would be over. He could not – must not – accept.

Valjean had taken his silence as rejection. His face fell.

‘Of course you wouldn’t want to. I’m sorry – it was only an idea—’

Javert’s heart clenched in his chest, more painful than if a knife had stabbed it. He would be damned in hell before he allowed Valjean to think he was in any way unwanted.

‘No. Sharing is fine. I was only wondering which side to choose. The left, I think,’ Javert mumbled, not looking at Valjean as he made a straight line to the bed.

As he made himself comfortable, he heard Valjean getting up. He felt the mattress dip as Valjean got under the blanket. Javert turned so that he was facing the wall, keeping carefully to the edge, making sure none of their clothes touched. He saw the shadows of Valjean’s hand casting on the wall as he reached out to the candle by the nightstand and pinched the flame with his fingers. The room was plunged into darkness.

‘Good night,’ Valjean whispered.

Javert mumbled something back.

All that was left was Valjean’s slow breathing. Javert closed his eyes and prayed for morning to come.

*

Despite his nerves, Javert somehow managed to doze off. His dreams arrived in fits – confusing and fragmented, flashes of sights and sounds that made sense only for the dream walker. One minute, he was plodding through an overgrown forest, battling wild branches that stabbed at his face; the next he was an officer of the watch in Toulon, spying on the bagnards toiling over broken ships in the quay. Then, he was an eagle, plunging into the wispy clouds of the sky as he soared into the heavens; then, he was a mole, small and blind, ploughing deep into the core of the earth; then, he was a trout, scurrying against the racing currents to find a mate. And then he was Javert in the Seine, trembling in the darkness, and the darkness alone was privy to his noiseless convulsions in the face of death.

He woke up.

The first thing he noticed was that he was alone on the bed. The second thing was that there was a shadow tiptoeing around the room – first to the coat hanger, then to the door.

The figure opened the door ever so slowly as to minimise the creaks that became tenfold louder in the darkness. Faint light from the outside slipped into the room, and it was just enough for Javert to confirm the identity of the shadowy figure was, indeed, Valjean, fully dressed in his coat and hat, valise in hand.

‘Giving me the slip again?’

Valjean gave a start. He whirled around.

‘Javert!’

‘Go on. Don’t let me keep you. Or do you prefer the window?’

Javert didn’t bother to hide the betrayal in his voice. He sat up and glared at Valjean, his eyes almost shining like a feline’s in the dark.

‘I can explain.’

‘Please do.’

Valjean didn’t. He stood still at the threshold, head bowed, seemingly wrestling with some inner demon.

Javert snapped.

‘Well, come in or leave. You’re letting the breeze in.’

Valjean decided at last to step inside and shut the door behind him. Javert drew back the curtains to let in the moonlight.

‘I am dangerous,’ Valjean said.

The statement was so unexpected yet delivered with such conviction that it threw Javert off. He let Valjean continue.

‘As long as I remain here, there’s always the possibility that someone will recognise me and report me to the police. I had allowed myself to be selfish for too long. When you abandoned your pursuit of me, I chose to remain by Cosette’s side – no, I should call her Madame Pontmercy now, as she is no longer mine. Yet, I chose to stay even when she married and gained a husband. And for a time, it was enough – to share one roof, one table, one fire with her; it’s joy, it’s everything to me. But I was ahead of myself. Thénardier appeared with his threat to ruin us. I had to leave, to get the money, but even if by some chance he takes it, who’s to say some other phantom from my past will not emerge from the shadows and rip off my mask? I will bring shame on her, on her family. Worse, she will know of my past. If she finds out, I…!’

Here Valjean broke off. He slumped to the armchair, all strength leaving his body.

‘I can bear the chain gang. I can bear a life sentence. I don’t fear death. I have died once already; it is nothing. But I cannot tell her, and have her look at me like a beast, a thing less than human…A man has the strength for one thing, but not another. Don’t you see, Javert? She doesn’t need this ulcer that I bring into her happiness. It’s for the best that I go away,’ he paused, ‘I don’t know to where, it doesn’t matter. The money I dug up – it’s on the table – it’s for Thénardier, so at least he may not darken her door again. Would you help me bring it to Marius?’

Javert listened to the speech in silence. He felt anything but calm.

‘Are you quite finished? Because I’d like to say my piece.’

He got out of bed and converged on the armchair where Valjean was sitting. His imposing height loomed over the older man.

‘You are insufferable. But I think you’re past the point where you realise it of yourself. So I shall tell you what I see. I saw a daughter who was so worried for her father that she dropped her responsibilities to find him only to be turned away at her old house with a lie, who was forced to call him “monsieur” and hear him address her as “madame” in turn like two strangers on the street, who is beyond devoted to him and has done everything right by him only to be punished without even being treated the courtesy to know his reasons! Yes, Valjean, you said you are selfish, and you are correct, because all you’re doing is making an orphan out of the girl by robbing her of her father, just like I did with her mother!’

At this, Valjean jerked up, eyes blazing with anger.

‘How dare you…!’

‘Tell me I’m wrong, then!’

Javert clamped his hands on either side of the chair and bore down on Valjean with all the strength of his glare.

Valjean was anything but cowered. He snarled back, ‘You know nothing of our relationship. No, I wager you know nothing of any relationship of any sort. How could you, when all your life you’ve done nothing but be the hunter? I do this out of love. What do you know of it?’

‘I know of love!’ Javert roared, his face brought so close to Valjean that their foreheads almost touched. ‘Do not lecture me about love, nor the sacrifices one must make for it.’

Valjean’s astonished look pierced Javert like a lance. He realised what he had let slipped, and all of a sudden his anger fled him at once, to be replaced by dread. He suddenly found his legs being propped by nothing else but despair. And despair brought him to his knees.

He bowed, his head almost touching Valjean’s lap.

To his surprise, what made him shudder was not because he had laid the most vulnerable part of himself bare, but because of his desire now to let Valjean know of it, to use all means at his disposal to convince Valjean of his worth. He thought of the pain he inflicted upon himself when he had kept his distance from Valjean. He thought of a future without Valjean completely.

‘You are loved. Must you suffer those who love you to bear the pain of losing you?’

He tried to keep his words impassive, but he could not quite hide the pain in his voice. He held his breath, awaiting rejection.

After a moment that felt like an age, Javert felt a hand on his shoulder – skittish and fleeting at first, then finally settling on him like a weight.

‘Javert, you don’t mean to say…I must be out of my mind, for I’m hearing in your words which that cannot be true,’ Valjean said, hesitantly.

Javert felt like a prisoner on death row who was walking towards the guillotine. The blade was raised, the basket ready beneath the frame. It was waiting for him to only put his neck to it. Yet what choice did he have?

He sat back on the floor, out of Valjean’s reach, and buried his head in his hands. He took a breath. So be it.

‘It is not the manner I would have you know. I would not have you know it at all, if I could help it. But it seems you will not be swayed otherwise, since you are too willing to discard the affections others have for you so easily,’ he muttered.

‘Do you mean to say…’

He laughed, humourlessly. ‘Must you force me to voice it? Is it not humiliating enough that you’ve brought me to my knees?’

‘You…love me.’

It has never been spoken out loud. Hearing it now, from Valjean’s lips, had a strange effect on Javert. The guillotine blade came hurtling down. He welcomed it.

‘Yes.’

‘As…a friend?’

He snorted. ‘We can pretend it is so if you wish. But no. Not a friend.’

Valjean fell silent. Javert dared not look up. He thought he knew what expression he would find there. Shock, disgust, maybe pity. But when the silence stretched out for too long, he gingerly lifted his head to find Valjean on the verge of tears.

‘God, have mercy on me,’ Valjean said, his voice was barely audible. He looked like he was in pain.

Javert was instantly alarmed. He lunged forward and cupped Valjean’s face to make the older man look at him.

Javert forced himself to discard his affectations, all his armour of harshness and sarcasm that had served him so well, and instead allowed himself for the first time in his life to speak from the heart. His words took on a tender quality that was foreign even to their speaker.

‘Valjean. I do not say it to ask you to return my feelings. No. You do not have to do anything of the sort. It is my burden alone to bear. But I need you to understand that, as…as someone who loves you,’ he choked out, ‘to be apart from you is hell. To continue without you, to live life as normal while you hide yourself away; well, that is no life at all. And while I do not know what a daughter feels for her father exactly, I know as certain as I know the sun rises in the east that she will be devastated if you do not come back. Do you hear me, Valjean?’

Valjean looked at him searchingly for a long moment. Javert did not know what went through the other man’s mind, but he was patient. He could kneel here by him for the rest of time as a dog waits on its master, and be content.

Valjean finally spoke, ‘I do not deserve your love, or Cosette’s.’

‘You have them anyway,’ Javert replied, his voice small, humbled by the adoration he held for this martyr of men.

‘There is nothing on this earth I want more than to return to Cosette’s side. But my past…I can’t keep imposing on her family while they remain ignorant of the truth.’

‘Then tell her.’

‘What?’

‘Tell her your past. All of it.’

Valjean paled. ‘Then I’ll lose her love.’

‘And I tell you that you won’t. You want proof? Here sits before you one who knows every face you’ve held, and who loves you despite, or because of them all.’

‘I cannot take that chance.’

‘Will you leave her anyway and deny her a choice?’

Slowly, but surely as water wears down the sturdiest of stones, Valjean showed the first signs of relent.

‘Maybe I can tell Marius, and he will decide if I should continue to see Cosette.’

‘Bah! To hell with that ninny. I don’t trust him not to do the stupid thing. Besides, your daughter is her own person,’ Javert snorted at the idea that Pontmercy should have any say in Valjean’s fate. But one look at Valjean’s miserable expression and Javert had to yield. ‘Fine, if you think it’s best.’

‘And if I go back…What about Thénardier? He will not back down so easily.’

‘What do you take me for? I captured him once, I certainly can do it again.’

Valjean darted his eyes around as though looking for further reasons to deny himself of love. Javert would not have it.

‘Look, you can keep inventing reasons why you shouldn’t be happy and be loved; I will be here to dispel each of them until the end of time if need be. So I suggest you save us some time and simply accept it.’

Valjean gazed at him with some indescribable emotion. His words, when spoken, were not meant for Javert at all. ‘God…have mercy on me.’

‘You’ve said that before. Is…’ Javert swallowed, his heart sinking, ‘is my affection that unwelcome to you?’

Valjean blinked. ‘No. No! That is not… I—’ he turned away. ‘My soul is wretched. It’s selfish. And I’ve tried not to be, but these attachments I have in my heart…I’ve tried to sever them, to break free of them, to stop indulging myself in what surely is not right for me to have. But…’ here he paused, his hands wrung together, ‘it seems like God is intent for me to keep indulging.’

Valjean dared to look at Javert again, his ears suspiciously pink.

Javert was not a student of the Bible. However, living in a Christian society, one absorbed certain ideas that became so ubiquitous one did not realise one knew it until one gave it speech. He spoke, startingly, ‘God is faithful; he will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you can bear.’

Valjean brought his hands to Javert’s and clasped them. ‘And with the temptation, he will also provide the way out so that you may be able to bear it.’

His redness spread from his ears and ripened into a flush that bloomed across his whole face, to his neck and beneath his collar. His white beard seemed to shine even brighter in contrast. Javert was a magnet caught in Valjean’s pull. It was hypnotising. It was tempting.

Javert felt himself leaning in. Valjean did not move.

Then, catching himself, Javert hastily dropped his hands and turned away. His forehead was beaded with sweat. His heart was slamming in his ribcage.

He cleared his throat and scrambled to his feet. His knees popped with an audible crack. He grimaced.

‘So we are through with this nonsensical business of running away?’

‘I will come back, if that’s what you’re asking,’ Valjean’s voice had a strange quality to it. Javert did not know what to make of that, so he ignored it.

‘Good. Then we will return to bed. I am far too old to be up at this hour.’

He all but leapt back under the cover before remembering their sleeping arrangement. He squirmed. ‘I can take the chair, if the…new knowledge makes you uncomfortable.’

Valjean immediately shook his head. ‘No, it does not,’ he said, and followed him into bed. Each kept to their side, careful not to touch.

They remained as they were until morning.

*

They slept little and were up shortly after dawn. By eight, the two men were already sitting on the coach back to Paris. The carriage was empty except for them – most chose to take later trips in the day. Javert and Valjean sat side by side, content to let the silence drape upon them like a familiar blanket.

The ride reminded Javert of another similar trip of months past, where they had taken the boy Pontmercy from the barricade to his grandfather’s house. That ride was much shorter in duration, yet had felt much longer.

Javert darted a glance at Valjean, who was keeping his eyes on the stretch of road visible through the window. He did not seem to treat Javert any differently after last night’s confession – which he figured was a blessing. Javert had been so convinced this revelation would ruin everything, hence him keeping his distance at great cost to himself. Not for the first time in his life, Javert was glad to be proven wrong.

So Valjean did not feel the same – of course he didn’t – and there was no point lamenting about it. Maybe when Javert was back in the privacy of his own rooms, his mind would return to this and lick his wounds – but he was content to let things stand as they were. He only hoped he could keep his feelings in check so as not to unnecessarily burden his friend further.

Which was a trifle difficult task when time to time Valjean would turn and give Javert a look, his eyes gleaming with some mysterious meaning. He was doing it again just now.

‘Will you stay to have breakfast with us?’ Valjean asked.

‘I think not. I’ve been in these clothes for more than a day. I need to go home and make myself presentable before meeting Monsieur Gisquet.’

‘Ah,’ Valjean said, and nothing more.

Seeing how his words can be misconstrued as another rejection, Javert hastily added, ‘I will drop by afterwards in the evening. Besides, I need to talk to your son-in-law about the matter of Thénardier. I expect that scoundrel will make contact again soon, and we need a plan.’

Valjean became sombre. ‘You don’t think he will take the money and leave us alone?’

Javert snorted. ‘He will try to squeeze you dry before he does anything of the sort. Better to get rid of him once and for all.’

‘By getting rid of, you mean…’

‘Put him in jail, of course. What do you think I mean?’

‘I only wondered if he might have family that are dependent on him. I recall he had daughters.’

‘Hm. I am wont to think any kin of Thénardier also follows his path of crime, if they are still alive. But we shall see.’

Valjean nodded and let the matter rest.

‘And you? When are you planning to talk to your daughter?’ Javert asked, then remembered. ‘Or rather, her husband, since you’re so set on keeping your secrets from her.’

‘Maybe once this situation is resolved. I don’t want to stress him unnecessarily.’

‘No. You should tell him today. Knowing you, the more you put it off, the more reasons you’ll invent to talk yourself out of it. Better to do it today, as he will no doubt have questions about your disappearance.’ At Valjean’s reticence, Javert continued, ‘Do you need me to be there, to make sure you don’t run from the room?’

‘No. I…I can do it, I think.’ Valjean gripped his knees, his knuckles white. He laughed at himself. ‘I can do that much. And once I have made my confession, the choice will be out of my hands. He will decide if I’m worthy to see Cosette again.’

Javert thought that if Pontmercy even suggested anything to the contrary, he would have stern words with him and perhaps bash his head against a wall so that the boy would see sense. ‘That boy should not be your judge and executioner. But I can see how you are not ready to tell Cosette yet. Well, we’ll work on that later.’

Valjean directed a sour look at Javert, like he had just swallowed a lemon. Javert let out a sharp bark of laughter.

They spent the rest of the ride in pleasant companionship, chatting about inconsequential matters and did not bring up any more talks of confessions and worthiness of love, which suited Javert just fine.

*

The coach took them back to the corner de la Planchette, where Valjean took another cab to the Gillenormand house and Javert walked back to his own lodgings. Javert had half a mind to escort the man home to make sure he did not flee again, but he admitted it might have been a tad extreme.

His meeting with M. Gisquet was rather short – the gang of robber-murderers seemed to be keeping a low profile after a few choice arrests were made, and the Préfet’s attention was now turned to matters of political affairs, which was of no concern nor interest of Javert’s.

As he left the building, he noticed Inspector Allard coming in for his shift. The two sometimes crossed paths and ever only exchanged nods. This time, however, Javert approached the man at his desk.

‘Good morning, Inspector.’

‘Good morning, Monsieur Javert. Can I help you?’

Javert remembered the man’s temperament as direct and assertive, who preferred to get straight to the point instead of dallying with small talk – in short, a disposition that Javert approved.

‘Yes, as a matter of fact, you can. Have you heard any news concerning a criminal by the name of Thénardier? He was part of the Patron-Minette and was captured last spring. But he broke out of jail.’

‘Patron-Minette! Of course, I know that gang of thieves, and your brilliant work on that case – who hasn’t? It’s very unfortunate that they escaped justice. I see, naturally you’d want to know if we managed to finish what you started. I don’t have good news there for you, I’m afraid. He proves to be as elusive as ever.’

Javert stroked his whiskers. ‘Then I may be of help. I might need to call on your assistance to make an arrest soon.’

Allard sat up, his attention caught. ‘Why? Did you see him somewhere?’

‘No. Or, not yet, which is my hope. I don’t yet have concrete evidence and thus cannot make an official inquiry. Still, I think you’ll be interested to be involved, once I know more.’

‘Most definitely. If you need me, just send a message to Inspector Allard; it’ll get to me.’

‘Thank you, Inspector.’

‘No, it’s I who should thank you,’ Allard said and stood up to extend his hand. ‘May I also add that your departure is a loss for the prefecture, although I know many who will disagree with me.’

Javert gingerly accepted the hand, once again torn between his old sense of duty and his new conscience. He felt wholly unqualified to be the recipient of such praise – certainly, he had been a good dog for the law and a great protector of the social system. Yet, at what expense?

There was nothing he could say that wouldn’t offend the man, so he simply tipped his hat and left.

He elected to walk to the Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire house instead of wasting money on a fiacre, which took him the better part of an hour. By the time he got there, it was almost late evening. Once again, the porter ushered him in, and this time he was sent to wait downstairs in the sitting room. Apparently, ‘Monsieur le Baron is engaged in a conversation with Monsieur Fauchelevant upstairs; they are not to be disturbed.’

Javert had an inkling of what this conversation entailed.

After ten minutes of waiting, Javert started drumming his feet. After another ten, he got up and paced around the room. Finally, he decided that he should satiate his curiousity lest he wore a hole into the expensive carpet. His mind made, he left in search of the pair.

The hallway was thankfully empty of servants. Javert made his way up the stairs with no witnesses and stopped in front of the drawing room. There were muffled voices behind the thick door; he put his ears to it but could not make out the words.

By this point, he was feeling incredibly foolish. But he was not a man to do things by halves. Might as well. Javert gently pushed the door just the tiniest bit ajar with his foot. It opened with barely a sound.

Valjean and Pontmercy stood in the centre of the room, their backs to him. Neither of them was speaking; both were frozen in place. For a moment they gave the impression of being statues.

Then, Pontmercy turned, and Javert saw that his face was pale. The boy hastened to the brandy rack on a nearby table and poured a glass for himself. He took a sip.

‘My apologies…I, your story, what you just told me…Why, I needed something strong,’ Pontmercy said, then after a second, downed the rest of it. ‘Do you want a glass, monsieur?’ he asked.

Valjean was taken aback. ‘Would you call me that, even after knowing what I am?’

Pontmercy was thoughtful. A gleam entered his eyes as he spoke, slowly at first, then with more conviction.

‘What I know is that you have been a good father to Cosette. You saved my life and carried me home from the barricade. You spared the life of the inspector who would have you arrested. So you used to be in prison. So what? If I had been captured during the uprising, I dare say I would be serving time now myself. I think you are a good man, monsieur,’ here he paused and drew a breath, having arrived at a decision, ‘and I would still call you father if you allow it.’

Valjean’s face has turned ashen, as though suffering from a great shock. Plainly he had not expected such unconditional acceptance.

‘And…Cosette, you think I should keep on seeing her?’

‘Of course! Why shouldn’t you? You live in the same house! Or do you wish to move out? Cosette will have objections, that’s for certain, but if you wish some space for yourself…’

‘No, no, not at all. I do not wish that at all.’ Valjean stumbled into a chair, his head in his hands. His shoulders were shaking. Javert realised belatedly that the man was sobbing.

Pontmercy fumbled to put the glass down and rushed to kneel before Valjean. The boy took the old man’s hand and whispered something too soft for Javert to hear.

Javert felt his heart constrict. He gritted his teeth and wondered at this sudden bitterness. By all means, he should be happy for Valjean. The man deserved nothing less. Yet, he envied Pontmercy for being in that position of power, that the boy was able to grant Valjean that which he had so desperately sought for, which Javert had been so wholly incapable of offering.

He scoffed at himself. Him, being jealous of a boy – of that Pontmercy, of all people. Ridiculous. Enough – he should go back downstairs and wait for his turn to be addressed.

Javert turned on his heels and did precisely that.

*

Shortly after Javert had returned to the sitting room, Pontmercy and Valjean came in – supposedly informed of his presence by the servant. Valjean seemed changed, like a great weight had been lifted from his shoulders. He brightened even more when his eyes landed on Javert and raised a hand in greeting. Javert nodded back.

‘Monsieur Javert,’ Pontmercy said, rather chirpily – no doubt an after-effect of the brandy. ‘You’re exactly the man I wanted to see. Another letter from Thénardier came in this morning.’

Javert leapt to his feet. From Valjean’s reaction, this was also news to him.

‘What does he say?’ Javert asked.

Pontmercy pulled out from his jacket the missive and handed it to Javert. It read:


             Monsieur le Baron,



             I trust you have given the matter sum thought. I fear my letter might have seemed akin to the words of a malefactor, who levols accusations upon estemed gentlmen of our society for his own means. You might even deem it necessry to involv the police, as you have welcomed a certen police inspector into your home. Yet, I ask you to reconsider. As I mentioned, I give this news to you in good faith. Plenty others would pay handsomly for this intelligence. I name Le Moniteur as an eksample. I understand you need proof. Meet me at the gate of Cimetière du Sud tomorow evening at nine, and you shall have it. I trust you will be disuayded from enlisting law enforcement in what is ultimately a domestic matter.


Javert quickly scanned the page, his senses fired up, his nose turned up not unlike a wolf. ‘Let’s see here…Christ, this scoundrel’s hand is atrocious! Thénardier knows of my presence in this house. I am not surprised; he must have been keeping watch. What else…He wants to meet at Cimetière du Sud. Why, that’s where I work!’ he exclaimed and looked up to address the two others in the room, only to realise that Valjean was leaning over his shoulder, almost standing on tiptoe to take a peek at the letter.

Pontmercy looked perplexed, ‘You work at a cemetery, monsieur?’

‘One has to eat. I am no longer employed by the police, and the cemetery, among others, offers me honest employment. Do you have an issue with it?’ Javert replied matter-of-factly, daring the boy to question him any further. The boy flustered.

‘No, of course not. I’m certain such work is as rewarding as any other…,’ he trailed off.

‘In any case, the location is well-chosen. The cemetery is enclosed on all sides by brick walls. There are no houses around it – it was built on land that was once farmland. It is open countryside, in other words, an uninhabited area. The gate is open to the public in the daytime; however, after dark, only those with a pass can enter or exit. There are few opportunities for a third party to listen in, unless one hides in the direction of the cemetery itself,’ Javert smirked, a plan forming in his brain. ‘Which might in fact work to our advantage. As a gravedigger, I have a pass. What’s more, I have contact with an Inspector in the force. I will ask him for support. Allard would jump at a chance to be the one to collar one of the Patron-Minette.’

‘This seems dangerous,’ Valjean spoke. Javert blinked out of his trance, suddenly noticing how awfully close the older man was standing. His breath was almost brushing Javert’s ears. He stamped on the urge to shudder.

‘What should I do, monsieur?’ Marius asked.

‘Do as the letter says. Be there at the appointed place and time. Once he’s drawn out of his hole, I would be nearby to observe the action and catch the villain in the act,’ Javert said. Once again, he was experiencing that thrill so familiar to the hunter – he told himself to calm down; it was a delicate trap, laying it required the utmost of care, and the prey was not so much a tame rabbit but a cunning fox. He could not allow any missteps.

‘I should do it,’ Valjean interrupted. ‘I cannot ask Marius to risk himself.’

Javert raised his eyebrows. ‘No. Thénardier will suspect that something is up.’

‘We got into this situation because of me; I couldn’t very well stay back and do nothing.’

‘The police will be there. That’s enough reason to keep you a block away from anything that will be happening.’

‘But—’

‘No buts. That is the end of it.’

Valjean had that look in his eye that told Javert this was not the end of it. He said nothing more.

‘I agree with Monsieur Javert, father,’ Pontmercy added, ‘I want to talk to the man himself – I still cannot quite reconcile this offender of the law with the man who supposedly saved my father. I want to try to understand him.’

‘Try all you wish. It’s your own time you’re wasting. Just don’t mess it up like the last time,’ Javert said in response.

Pontmercy turned scarlet. ‘I won’t,’ he replied, a touch of indignance in his voice.

‘Last time?’ Valjean asked.

‘The boy was supposed to give me the signal to make the arrest in another incident at the Thénardiers’ abode, about perhaps a year ago. He never did. He also made off with two of my pistols.’

‘Oh, you were there, father!’ Pontmercy blurted. Javert looked at him like he had grown another head. But something seemed to click for Valjean.

‘This…was this at the Gorbeau tenement?’

Realisation dawned. ‘You were the victim who slipped away under my nose through the window!’

Valjean coughed, his ears pink. ‘Apparently so.’

Javert clapped a hand on his forehead, incredulous. ‘Is Paris the size of a village? It might as well be, considering the amount of times I’ve bumped into you. I should have suspected just by how easily you gave me the slip. So I was right that he was the real prize after all! Imagine if I had caught you then.’

‘Yes, I was very fortunate that you never got a good look at me,’ Valjean replied, a hint of a smile on his lips.

‘That’s for the best. Otherwise we wouldn’t be here, and I think we all agree that the current state of affairs is infinitely more preferable,’ Javert shook his head, still in disbelief.

‘Seeing how you’re so affected by this revelation, maybe I shouldn’t tell you how I lived next door to you for a time…?’

Javert whirled his head around to stare at Valjean, whose eyes were crinkling with barely suppressed mirth. ‘You’re not serious.’

‘No, I wasn’t. But the look on your face – my apologies, I couldn’t resist.’

Valjean was chuckling, seemingly overcome by an uncharacteristic bout of jest, which was a rather curious look on him but not entirely unwelcome. Javert suddenly felt warm all over even though the windows were open. Strange.

Behind them, Pontmercy cleared his throat. ‘So, monsieur, we are agreed about tomorrow.’

Javert snapped out of whatever that was. ‘Yes. You shall be there at the cemetery by nine. Bring the money. Talk to him. Above all, be natural. Do not let him think his game is up. Can you do that?’

Pontmercy swallowed, but his eyes shone with conviction. ‘I won’t disappoint you.’

‘Good. Now I must go send a message to Allard. With any luck, this whole sordid business will be over next time we meet,’ Javert concluded, then left to find a gamin, his mind converged on his singular mission.

Cimetière du Sud (South Cemetery) was the old name of what is now Montparnasse Cemetery.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


As it happened, the next day Javert was called to the cemetery for the burial of some intellectual that he didn’t care enough to remember the name of, which gave him the perfect opportunity to get inside well ahead of time and get a lay of the land. Allard and his men would not be able to hide inside the gates – it would draw too much attention – so they agreed to let Javert observe and send a signal with a pistol when he deemed the time was right.

What a twist of fate, to have him now standing in the same position as that Pontmercy, no longer a police agent but an informant who sneaked around in the shadows!

Cimetière du Sud, despite being a fairly new burial ground of only less than a decade old, was already showing signs of crowding. It did not have the elegance of Père-Lachaise or Montmartre, yet was affordable enough for those who did not want to end up in a mass grave. Even in the dying light of day, the place was submerged in a perpetual gloominess that weighed heavy on the soul. The paths were mostly deserted and lined with arrays of grey tombstones that were beginning to be overtaken by growth and moss. A macabre and desolate place that no doubt attracted the lowest depths of society like that of Thénardier. One look at the topography of the land and one could see how there was no equality even among the dead. The rich erected crypts to house their eternal souls and grim statues that stood guard until the world was remade. The less wealthy were content with a simple cross or a slab of stone, as their earthly bodies rotted away beneath. As for the poor? They did not belong here – their remains were stuffed into shallow graves in the back of churches, or piled into that great Parisian cellar, that kingdom of the dead called the catacombs. They died in anonymity, without a name or origin, for the poor did not have any right nor desire to be remembered.

The burial of a M. Perreault went ahead without much fanfare. Once the family had left, Javert hoisted his spade and began to fill the hole with earth – a job that seemed easy but was in fact more taxing on his aging body than he had first thought. Javert had never been an idle man, yet he would wake up every morning after a job such as this with aches and pains all over. It was backbreaking, thankless work, and he received it with little grumble.

By the time he was done with the last spadeful of soil, the sun had already sunk below the horizon. The sky was shrouded in clouds; he could see no stars or moon. Faint light from the street lamps outside barely reached in here. The walkways were cast in shadows. Javert wiped the sweat from his brow. His back was throbbing, and he wished for nothing more than his bed. But there was yet a task to do.

He left his spade at the grave – it would keep – and made his way to the gates. The cemetery was deserted. At sundown, no family was allowed in; few gravediggers stayed also, preferring a drink at the closest bar instead.

The metal gate for the pedestrian entrance was flanked on two sides with thick stone columns. Next to it was the gatekeeper’s lodge, whose windows were perpetually shut. A kind of letterbox was cut into the window – this was where one would drop his pass. The porter, for reasons of either efficiency or idleness, operated only by sound. He never opened the window to check what was going on outside. Once he heard the pass fall, he would pull up the ropes, and one would be granted entrance or exit.

Javert thought to hide behind one of the stone columns and wait until the appointed hour. He looked around to make sure he was alone. Then, out of the corner of his eyes, Javert saw a shadow move between the graves.

It was faint enough to have been a trick of the dark, but his senses perked up. His aches and pains were forgotten – the hound had caught a scent, and the only thing left was the hunt.

Javert carefully picked his way through the tombs, his workman’s cap pulled low, affecting an air of nonchalance as though a lost man simply looking for his wife’s grave. Without any obvious movements, he checked the pistol in his coat and the truncheon tucked into the band of his trousers.

The maze of stones was treacherous and dark, each corner seemingly hiding secrets that only ghosts knew of. It was unnaturally quiet. There was no wind, no animals, only the dead beneath his feet. He stopped, more still than the dead itself.

There. A sound of crunching dried leaves. Javert sprang forward and dived behind a tall tombstone; his truncheon was raised high, ready to strike–

Only to come face to face with Jean Valjean.

Valjean had the expression of a wild boar coming face to face with a tiger.

‘Javert! Would you mind lowering that?’ he exclaimed, pointing to the rod.

Javert did. He was beyond flabbergasted.

‘Why am I not surprised? No, I am past the point of surprise by now. You have me so trained to your insane antics that I would be more surprised if it wasn’t you!’ He threw his arms in the air in agitation.

‘I thought you could use my help.’

‘Of course you did. So you chose to sneak around like a vagabond. Did you follow me?’

‘Well, I knew the time and place of the meeting. So I simply got in before the gates closed. I had been waiting since.’

Javert bit back a sigh of exasperation and crouched behind the tombstone with Valjean. ‘We’re not through with this conversation. But you’re here, and there’s a villain to catch. The police will supposedly already be in position. So I suggest you remain here and stay silent.’

‘I…’

Whatever Valjean had planned to say was swallowed up. He nudged at Javert and pointed towards one of the deserted paths. Emerging from the shadows was a man, wearing black from head to foot, walking with a stoop, tailed by a malnourished-looking girl whose ragged dress and coat were barely enough to cover her shivering shoulders.

They walked into a patch of street illuminated by the lamps. The face of the man was unknown to Javert. But he would recognise that gait anywhere.

‘Thénardier. He must have changed his face,’ he spit out. ‘The girl behind him must be one of his daughters then.’ Javert never paid any close attention to them, having disregarded them as inconsequential. Still, he thought this one was the younger girl whom he had arrested during the Gorbeau incident. Azelma, he believed was the name.

The two Thénardiers scurried towards the gate. The man was hauling on his shoulders a spade. Javert realised he was also a gravedigger. Thénardier motioned for his daughter to move behind one of the stone columns while he stood next to the other. The pair darted their heads out and scanned the area outside the gates – still empty of people.

Javert bit down a curse. Of course, Javert’s scheme was also Thénardier’s. As someone with a pass to the cemetery after dark, the scoundrel would also be able to hide inside the gates and show himself only at the last minute once he had ascertained that it was safe to do so. The girl Azelma no doubt would stay behind to keep watch.

His mind raced. He had to think quickly. Perhaps the situation was yet salvageable. The night was dark, and the girl would not expect someone coming from the direction of the graveyard. If he waited until Thénardier had exited the gates, he could approach the girl from behind and remove her from the equation. It would be brutish work, but the element of surprise was on his side. The most difficult part would be to cross the five meters or so of distance from his hiding place at the stones to the gate without being discovered. A stretch of footpath lay in between them, with little opportunity for cover. What time was it? Surely it was nine already. He could see Thénardier searching his pockets for the pass, ready to drop it into the porter’s letterbox at any moment.

Just as Javert was about to make a run for it, Valjean put a hand on his arm. ‘The gravels. They’ll hear you,’ he whispered. ‘When he exits, I’ll make a distraction to draw the girl.’

Javert scowled but nodded. Quick as a cat, Valjean moved behind a statue of an angel.

In the course of Javert’s long life, he had learned many lessons, especially when it concerned an ambush. One of them was to always expect the unexpected. More often than not, things would make a turn for the worse.

In the darkness, Valjean had unknowingly stepped on a rat whose only crime was to choose its hideout beneath the feet of a messenger of God. Valjean had caught his balance in time, but it did not stop the rat from letting go of a wraithlike screech that was ear-splitting in the darkness.

Thénardier and the girl gave a start and swirled around. They stared in Valjean’s direction, but the tombstones hid them well. Thénardier made a gesture for Azelma to go investigate. Javert kept his head low as the girl crossed the path and entered the maze of graves. Her head darted around; her fingers clutched at her skirt in agitation.

The second she was near, Valjean’s arms shot out, his hands on her mouth, and pulled her behind the angel statue. She didn’t have time to make a sound.

All of this took place in the unlit dark, shielded by trees that created pools of shadows on the ground, and unseen by those outside it.

Thénardier stared at the emptiness where his daughter was, still ignorant as to what had happened. He called out. ‘Azelma?’

His head moved around in the manner of a meerkat, panic clearly rising. Then he picked up his spade and held it like one would a sword, and approached the tombstones with jerking steps.

‘Who’s there? Show yourself!’ he exclaimed.

Javert gripped his truncheon in his hand, its weight familiar and reassuring. He held his breath. Thénardier made one step off the path into the narrow spaces between tombstones, then quickly stepped back, unwilling to enter further into that foreboding murkiness. He swung his spade in a frenzy and shouted again.

‘Show yourself, coward!’

Javert moved as silent as a tiger and encroached as near as he could on his opponent. He waited until the other man was facing the other way. In seconds, Javert was behind him, his rod raised high.

‘Here I am, thief.’

Javert swung down on his head. But Thénardier had expected it. He dodged. The truncheon struck his leg instead. Thénardier tripped, but as he fell, he made a large swipe with his spade. The blade dug into Javert’s ribs, stealing the breath from his lungs.

Javert dropped to his knees. Thénardier scrambled backwards. Before Javert could get back on his feet, the villain swung the spade once more. This time, it connected with his head.

The pain was unutterable.

Javert grunted. He had somehow managed to grab a hold of the spade’s head and was gripping it with ferocity. Thénardier dropped it and instead pulled out from his pocket a knife. The scoundrel took no time to lunge it at Javert. Javert watched the blade hurtling towards him. Normally it was but the work of a second to dodge. In his daze, his limbs were clumsy and refused to obey.

He winced in expectation of the inevitable.

It never came.

A shadow had thrust itself between him and the knife. The shadow was Valjean.

From what little light there was, he could see that the knife had buried itself in Valjean’s shoulder, almost to the hilt.

Javert did not waste time to allow shock to enter his system. He picked up Thénardier’s spade by the handle and swung it with whatever was left of his strength.

Thénardier yelped as the blade hit his chest. He staggered backwards. His legs were a tangled mess. He tripped on a protruding grave, and – like a bag of bricks – he dropped.

His head smashed into a headstone with a sickening crack.

It was over, as suddenly as it had begun.

Sparing not another glance at Thénardier’s lifeless body, Javert whirled around to check on Valjean, who had fallen to his knees, his face grim with pain. Javert hovered over him, careful not to touch the protruding hilt of the knife.

‘Don’t pull it out. You’ll lose blood. Keep it there until the doctor’s seen to it.’

His voice was level, courtesy only of decades at his job of having seen similar injuries. His insides were anything but. Yet, in moments of great emergency, one might find oneself awashed with a sudden and clear sense of purpose; one’s mind strangely cloudless and free of the hysteria that might bind one’s limbs and render one useless. In such a state, they are extremely capable, their adrenaline tiding over until any imminent danger has passed – then, and only then, they may crash. And what a terrible crash it would be, as if from the greatest heights to the nethermost depths, causing one to be totally incapacitated, robbed of even the most basic of functions.

At this moment in time, Javert’s mind was still in that pre-crash state. He was akin to a soldier in battle – each and every action brief, mechanical, and with purpose. He took off his coat to cover Valjean’s shoulders with it, led Valjean to the cemetery gate, dropped his gravedigger pass into the letterbox, went through it once the porter had pulled up the gate, hailed for a cab that was heading their way and quickly realised that it had brought Pontmercy. In a clipped tone that allowed no questions, he all but ordered the boy to take his father-in-law home as fast as the fiacre would go and to call for a doctor.

Javert then pulled out from his coat pocket the pistol that Inspector Allard had lent him, fired one shot in the air, and waited for the police to come out of hiding so he could relate the full truth of what had happened inside the gate of Cimetière du Sud.

The porter, frightened first by the gunshot, then by the mob of police officers banging on his door demanding entrance, had no choice but to let them in so that they could verify the truth of Javert’s words. They found Thénardier’s body where it lay. They did not bother to look for Azelma; the girl must have fled deep into the maze of grey tombstones and sightless statues, keeping herself hidden until it was safe again to rejoin the living.

The police, having poked and prodded to their heart’s content, left without taking Thénardier. God knows what would happen to his body. The cemetery would reject it for this was a land for the dead who paid; a cart might be sent to carry him to the morgue, to the pauper’s grave, or to the medical students where they would pick him apart, rip open the beast’s skin to find only human organs beneath. Whatever that may be, it was of no personal concern to agents of the law.

Inspector Allard briefly stopped to offer Javert a thank-you; Javert barely heard him. He returned the used pistol, bid him farewell, and went searching for his own cab.

Although the journey must have taken the better part of an hour, it seemed to Javert he had barely blinked before he was once again standing in front of the door of Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire.

He stood there frozen, twisting his hat in his hand like a nervous wreck.

Pontmercy must have already called for a doctor. Cosette would be there also, catering to Valjean’s every whim like a devoted guardian. Moreover, it was only a shoulder wound, unlikely to be fatal. Valjean would have no need of Javert’s gloomy presence by his bedside.

He brought his hand up to knock anyway, like a man possessed.

Basque opened the door. ‘Ah, Monsieur Javert. You are expected.’

Javert did not have time to consider what that exactly meant before he was quickly ushered up into Valjean’s quarters.

Pontmercy exclaimed when he entered. ‘Monsieur! There you are! I’ve been waiting for you. You must explain all – what happened? Where is Thénardier? How came father to be so injured? I had to send Cosette away knowing I wouldn’t be able to answer her questions. I hope you would be able to elucidate, I do hate to hide things from her…’

The boy’s tirade of questions left him red in the face, but Javert paid little heed to that. His eyes were glued on Valjean’s prone form on the bed, half covered by a blanket. His torso was bare, revealing the deep, ugly gash on his shoulder. A doctor sat by his side, cleaning the wound with a wet cloth. Valjean’s expression was grim and ashen; when he heard Javert’s entrance, he whirled around, his eyes locked on him with indescribable emotions.

‘Javert,’ was all he said.

Javert felt dizzy on his feet. The crash had come.

His knees buckled, forcing him to lean against the wall. He realised his hand was trembling. He had never tremored as such before, not even during the most perilous moments of his life. Then again, he had never come so close to having his heart ripped out right in front of his eyes before.

‘You should not have done that,’ Javert said, dipping his chin, sinking under his cravat, his features all but hidden.

Valjean inhaled sharply as the surgeon pierced his skin with the needle and began to sew him up. He managed, ‘I do not regret it, not one bit. But I regret his death.’

‘I don’t. He was on death row already,’ Javert replied curtly. Pontmercy interjected, ‘Who is dead, father? Is Thénardier deat?’

Valjean turned to his son-in-law, a grim smile on his face. ‘Yes. We got into a scuffle. He tripped and fell. His head hit a stone, I think.’

Pontmercy was lost in thought for a moment, but continued. ‘I shouldn’t feel glad for a man’s death, no matter how awful he was in life. I wish I could have talked to him…maybe helped him somehow. Do you know if—’

He was interrupted by the door slamming open. It was Cosette. She rushed into the room like someone on a mission.

‘Papa, are you quite all right? I heard you called for a doctor, are you ill? You…Oh.’

Neither of them had any time to react, much less stop the girl from stepping further inside the room. Her eyes immediately fell on her father. What she saw, she did not say. Perhaps his gruesome, bleeding wound being sewn together. Perhaps also his carved up skin with its the multitudes of scars, the grooves and ridges that were engraved into his wrists, the lash’s dent, the chain’s brand – all that marked him irrefutably as an ex-convict.

Valjean jerked. His face was a scene of horror. Before he could say or do anything, the surgeon pushed him back down. ‘I’m not done yet,’ the surgeon said. Valjean meekly complied, but not before attempting to cover what he could with his blanket.

He closed his eyes, not daring to look at Cosette. His knuckles were white.

Yet, Cosette did not flee from the room. Nor did she gasp, scream, or hide from the sight. She simply moved next to her father, as swiftly and soundlessly as a bird, and lighted gently at the end of his bed. She took his hand in both of hers.

‘Papa, how come are you so grievously wounded and not tell me? Do you think me so frail or so easily frightened? You make me unhappy. Your wound is my wound; I feel it just as deeply in my chest. Would you keep me from knowing about my own injury?’

Her voice was quivering and slightly choked as though swallowing down tears. She had eyes only on the stab wound, seemingly blind to the scars that littered Valjean’s arm. She kissed that old man’s knuckles in reverence. Valjean’s breath hitched. Cosette fretted. ‘Does it hurt?’

But Javert could see that it was no pain of the flesh that was inflicted on Valjean. It was something belonging to the soul, something ineffable.

‘No, my child. It does not hurt me at all,’ Valjean managed. Even one unfamiliar with him can detect a tremor in his tone, badly hidden as it was.

‘You are not a good liar at all! I can see the wound, you know. I would ask how it came about, but I know you would prefer to hide it from me,’ she said accusingly.

‘Ah, well…’

Pontmercy interrupted them. ‘We had an encounter with a thief, my darling. Father tried to protect me. When the ruffian saw that he couldn’t intimidate us, he ran away.’

Cosette swirled around to face her husband. ‘My God! And you are all right, Marius?’

‘I am unharmed, my love. All thanks to your father.’

‘Then you saved his life once again and elected to hide it from me! Papa, your silliness honestly baffles me. There’s only one way to rectify this. I shall have to spend so much time with you that these silly thoughts shall not have the chance to come near you. And I shall start by taking care of your recovery. What do you say to soup? I will go ask the cook to warm some for you right now!’

Cosette stood up, a woman with a mission. In her eagerness to be of help to her father, she did not wait for Valjean to reply. From the stunned look on his face, Javert doubted Valjean was in any state of mind to say anything coherent anyway.

When she turned around, her eyes landed on Javert. She gasped. ‘Monsieur Javert! I’m so terribly sorry. I didn’t realise you were here. I never greeted you. How rude of me!’

‘No offense taken, madame.’

Still, Cosette seemed embarrassed for being a less than stellar host. ‘Can I bring anything for you? Some tea, perhaps?’

‘I’m fine as I am.’

‘Let me bring you tea,’ she said, in a tone that brooked no contradiction. She took Pontmercy’s arm. ‘My dearest, can you come help me? I doubt I can carry everything by myself.’

‘Yes, yes of course.’

The young couple hurried from the room, leaving them with the doctor, who had finished with his sutures and was wrapping up Valjean’s shoulder with a bandage. The man stood up to gather his things. ‘Please refrain from any strenuous or sudden movements on that side for a couple of weeks. If it bleeds, feels inflamed, or if you start a fever, call me right away,’ the man said, and as if reading Javert’s questioning gaze, he added. ‘I have taken the physician’s oath; besides, I have been in Monsieur Gillenormand’s employ for many years. My only duty is to heal, not to run my mouth.’

He left.

Javert waited until the door was shut before lunging to Valjean’s side, his hand skittering over the bandaged shoulder. He said nothing. He could say nothing. He still felt the aftertaste of fear on his tongue; its bitterness bound his mouth as surely as any muzzle.

When Valjean spoke up, however, it was not along the lines of what Javert had expected to hear at all.

‘I am strangely grateful to Thénardier.’

‘What?’

‘This injury he gave me. I almost welcomed it. It is a blessing in disguise. You see this brand on my arm? He once inflicted this on me, a long time ago – well, to be more accurate, I inflicted it on myself under circumstances of his making. Thanks to it, Cosette for a time forgot about her newfound love and chose to spend all her devotion on me. I was happy then. It is the same now. She has seen me, surely has seen my scars just now, yet somehow neglected to mention them, and now I…I shall have her attention on me as proof of her love…God, I sound selfish, don’t I. What a wretch I am, to be grateful to a dead man for trying to kill me!’

Valjean laughed, but his laugh was bitter and without joy. Javert watched him belittle himself, at a loss of what to do.

So he said instead, ‘I don’t know what misguided gratitude you feel for that villain, but for injuring you twice, I wish I could have killed him a second time.’

Valjean gave him a look that almost bordered on pity, then reached out and took hold of his hand, which had lighted upon the stab wound Valjean had taken upon himself in exchange for Javert’s life. Their conjoined hands lay atop Valjean’s bare chest, moving with every inhale and exhale of his sturdy body and vibrating with every pulse of his great heart.

Javert wished to put his ears to it, to press his head on Valjean’s skin, to burn like the moth to the fire with Valjean’s heat that ran so hot it was a furnace, to scorch himself with this irrefutable proof of Valjean’s life, to sear into his brain this fact that here was a force of life that could not be easily extinguished – not by the bagne, not by a lifetime of suffering, and certainly not by a mere knife wound.

He could not do any of those things. So he simply concentrated his full force of terrible focus on his hand, rising and falling with Valjean’s breath.

Then, as if in a dream, as if his body was no longer his own, he leaned down and planted a kiss on Valjean’s shoulder where the blade had pierced skin.

The second he did, he snapped out of it and jerked back. His lips were on fire.

Valjean’s eyes were wide open. He opened his mouth to – to what, Javert couldn’t possibly imagine.

Nor would he ever know, for Cosette and Pontmercy chose that moment to return, carrying the promised soup and tea.

Valjean’s jaws snapped shut. Javert all but bolted from the bedside and donned his hat, which had been left on the nightstand.

‘I must leave. Good evening.’

His voice was almost inaudible in the cacophony of his heart.

He faintly registered Cosette’s cry of surprise, but he did not remain long enough to see her reaction as he dashed out of the house and into the night.

*

The night provided no solace. The darkness gripped him in its claws and dragged him into untold depths.

In his small bed that barely fit his twisting body, his brain was swelling to a size that his skull struggled to contain. He did not find sleep, for to be awake itself was to be walking inside a dream. He could not close his eyes, for behind his eyelids he saw another reality unfolding. From Valjean’s shoulder, it was more than easy to imagine Javert’s lips continuing up his collarbone, the soft skin beneath his neck, then his cheeks, and eventually his lips…

He bit his tongue in a futile attempt to stem the tide of thoughts. Such was the depravity of his soul – to fantasize, to steal pleasure from such unpermitted fantasy, to take liberties with one who was a saint, one to whom he owed his life, one who was above desires of the flesh.

Worse, he began to entertain a foolish notion that when Valjean had clasped Javert’s hand and brought it to his bare chest, he had meant the act as something more than simple camaraderie.

Javert’s mind, ever unaccustomed to contradiction and deep rumination, was once again plunged into anguish. Yet, as was the case with love, its anguish was ever followed closely by hope.

As hard as Javert pushed these wild thoughts down, they would bubble up, inextinguishable, gouging marks deep into the marrow of his bones.

Unbidden, he raised his hand and touched his lips where it had felt Valjean’s skin. He could scarcely think; his ideas were all tangled. He felt like a child in the first days of adulthood: uncertain, ungraceful, clumsy, stupid.

Pitiful was the old man who loved only in his autumn days – he did not possess the freshness and charm of the young man to smooth over his inexperience.

He vaguely registered the heat pooling slowly southward, pressing insistently at the cloth of his nightgown. By God’s grace, he kept his hands by his side. He still had some dignity left in him to not debase Valjean with such an act.

For even in the midst of turmoil, one thing stood clearly in his mind: that he was debased, that he had done wrong by not keeping his distance, that he could not do so even if under pain of death, that he should be punished, dismissed, denounced, that it was in Valjean’s right to do so.

Javert groaned and rolled on his stomach. His body, nay, his whole being, was encased in darkness. He sent a voiceless prayer to God to grant him light.

*

Morning arrived, neither bringing peace nor clarity of mind. If Javert had taken a look at himself in the mirror, he would not recognise him, for he was pale and wasted. His eyes were sunken like a corpse; his face was rough and stubbled. His exhaustion was that of mind and body; his muscles protested from the exertion of last night with every movement.

Javert somehow found himself at the writing table, taking up a pen to begin a letter. But to whom? To Valjean? To God? Or heaven forbid, to La vieille dame of Le Conseiller? Such a thing would be a product of madness – he couldn’t expect to ask a stranger for advice. Whatever scraps of his dignity left would not stand for it. No. Whatever resolution was to come of this situation, it must come from him alone.

He abandoned the attempt and returned to his bed. He had hardly sat on it when he heard a knock on the door.

‘Enter,’ he croaked.

Javert barely even reacted when Valjean appeared. ‘Jean Valjean. What are you doing here?’

Valjean stepped into his room, but only just passed the threshold. ‘Javert,’ he started, and nothing else. He put his hat on a table. It was a long moment before he moved closer. A distance remained.

‘I’m here to ask for your forgiveness,’ he finally said.

Valjean’s words snapped Javert out of his trance. He roused from his bed, and in doing so, noticed his own state of dishevelment. He cringed and sat back down.

‘What are you talking about? It is me who needs forgiveness. I acted in an unbecoming manner. I ran out of your apartment like a ninny without any explanation.’

‘You didn’t have to. I understood.’

‘Then you also understood that it was me who took liberties of you. Why are you apologising?’

‘I…,’ Valjean hesitated. He looked around, clearing his throat, seemingly trying to find words. Javert thought he knew where this was heading and interrupted.

‘There’s no need to say anything. I know what I did. And I promise you it won’t happen again.’

Valjean’s head snapped up. ‘Do you mean to keep your distance again?’

Javert should have lied. He could not.

‘If that is what it takes. If that is what you wish.’

‘No! Not at all,’ Valjean quickly said, stepping one step closer and bringing him a hand’s breadth away from Javert. From this close, Javert realised that the other man had a pallid look on his face as if he also had spent the night sleepless. Valjean continued. ‘God, I’m doing this all wrong,’ he laughed, seemingly at himself. ‘Never shall I be critical of Marius again. Despite his faults, he is a more courageous soul than I am. This is harder than I ever thought it would be.’

Javert felt like Valjean was speaking another language. ‘You’re not making the slightest bit of sense right now. What does that boy have anything to do with this?’

Valjean’s hands flitted about, making quick and nervous movements.

‘You must understand. For decades I have been alone in the world. I had never been father, lover, husband, nor friend. That was until Cosette came into my life, and then she became the single subject of all the love I might have ever felt. I thought it was all I would ever be permitted. But then I rescued you from the river, and against all my expectations, we became closer, as if by providence. I came to treasure your company as one would a friend. Perhaps a brother. For the longest time, I told myself that it was all there was to it. What else did I have to compare it to? I was content. Then this last month, you suddenly became distant, and I…I suffered in ways I did not know how to bear.

And…and then you told me you loved me. I could not believe it. How could one such as you love someone such as me? Yet it was as if someone had lit a candle in my head and revealed a room I never knew was there. I came to be aware of things, of desires, hidden in the shadows, long ago shoved into a corner, neglected and collecting dust for lack of need. But now…I find that I have need of them.’

Valjean’s speech petered out, lowering to nothing more than a soft murmur that Javert had to strain his ears to catch.

‘What are you getting at?’ Javert asked, throat dry. Valjean looked up, his eyes suddenly resolute. He took one step closer, and then he was at Javert’s bedside, towering over him, fixing his singular gaze on him. His hand landed on Javert’s cheek in a trembling caress.

In the hazy sunlight filtered through the thick curtains of the windows, Valjean looked almost fearful. But then he bent down and put his lips on Javert.

It was the chastest of kisses – barely a brush on the corner of Javert’s mouth. In some regions, perhaps one could even call it brotherly. But there was nothing brotherly about the way Javert chased after those lips like a dog after a bone.

As it happened, Javert stood up too fast, and his face collided with Valjean’s in a rather painful clash of mouth and teeth. He pulled back, his limbs and body suddenly not his own.

‘I’m sorry, that was – are you hurt?’

Valjean rubbed at the site of collision, but he was laughing also, and it was the sweetest sound to Javert’s ears.

‘It seems we are both out of our depths when it comes to this.’

There are times when one stands in front of a precipice beyond which one can see the whole course of one’s life is charted. It is a new and foreign land, wrapped in mist, holding within itself some incredible secret that promises both pleasure and pain. Step off the ledge, jump, and one casts away everything one knows of himself to forever be swallowed by that world. Every move one takes henceforth will be into uncharted territory. Remain, and one might be safe – yet, one might turn around only to realise the once familiar scenery is now barren, unwelcoming, and abhorrent. One can very well survive in such desolation, but he will be deprived of the very substance that keeps one’s soul alive.

Javert found himself in front of such a precipice. No wonder, then, that he took the plunge. He thought it was no different than the first time he had done it.

With slow and deliberate movements, Javert raised his hands to cup Valjean’s cheeks. The lynx had the lion in its grasp. The lion submitted to the lynx gladly. Javert drew closer, his eyes wide open, expecting Valjean to flee at any moment. His breaths came in fits. Their noses touched. Valjean kept still, patient as stone.

Javert's eyes asked a silent question.

Valjean nodded.

Javert closed the distance.

He was immediately drowned by a host of sensations, the likes of which he never knew he was capable of. All at once, he felt Valjean everywhere – on his skin, on his lips, on his hair, on his band – embracing him and permeating his very being. He felt dizzy, or perhaps drunk, or perhaps dead. For this could not be real; him, Javert, kissing him, Valjean, not as a friend, not as a brother, but as a husband might kiss a wife. Yet they were both men, and neither were any less equal than the other.

His soul quivered. He fell, and fell, and his feet never hit the ground.

How could this be?

Javert pulled back, just enough for them to draw breath. Valjean’s heavy-lidded expression was headier to him than the most exquisite wine. He caressed Valjean’s cheeks and marvelled when the other man turned into his palm, his skin flushed red, his lips shining with moisture. Javert’s touch was welcomed, nay, desired.

How could this be?

Valjean pressed a soft peck in the soft place below his thumb, and another, and another. His hands came up to clasp Javert’s and brought them to his forehead as if in prayers. As if Javert was something worthy of reverence. Of love.

‘How could this be?’ Javert’s question did not slip out, but rather burst out of him. ‘If I didn’t know better, I would say this was some jest from the universe, or perhaps I was dreaming.’

Valjean looked at him in wonderment. ‘I would say the same. But God’s greatest gift to us is love. He saved us, not because of the righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy.’

‘You surely deserve more than the love of this sinner.’

‘I am also a sinner. Who is to say we don’t deserve each other?’ Valjean replied, joy making him impossibly softer, younger. ‘And besides, you sell yourself short. There is much I’m grateful to you for.’

‘You are in the habit of doling out gratitudes, though I know not the reason.’

‘For bringing me back. For forcing me to give life another chance. When I ran away…well, I did not dare to admit it to myself, but I wonder if I would slowly waste away alone without those whom I love.’

An image rose unbidden in Javert’s mind – of Valjean, lying in his bed, thin and drawn. His face was white as a sheet, his strong muscles replaced by sagging skin, his breath shallow, his chest barely rising, his body trying to squeeze out the final drops of exhausted life in debilitating efforts. The vision materialised with such clarity and force that Javert had to blink several times to see again the Valjean of this reality – strong and flush with life.

Javert suddenly realised that the vision was no less than a ghost of a future which never came to pass, a warning sent by providence, a reminder of what Valjean’s unsought-for martyrdom could have led to.

He shuddered.

‘Rest assured that I will not allow it, as long as I draw breath,’ he said, as much a vow to Valjean as to himself.

Valjean beamed at him. ‘If I could be loved better, I do not want it.’

A wave of affection washed over Javert. He felt his eyes burn with an unfamiliar sting. He wondered if this was his purpose, after all – to be Valjean’s tether to this world.

He would gladly accept it.

Javert pulled Valjean on top of him, careful to avoid his injured shoulder. Valjean let out a huff of surprise as their bodies tangled together on the bed. Javert allowed himself his share of Valjean’s scent, touch, presence, everything.

They lay side by side on the narrow bed, embracing the other in chaste tenderness, both beholding for the first time in their long lives that ineffable warmth that came from loving in this way, and being loved in return.

They beheld each other, and trembled.

*

 

A few days later saw Javert once again at the Gillenormand house to meet Valjean for their evening walk. It had become a habit of theirs, of late. They would stroll the Luxembourg Garden and admire the flowers in bloom, perhaps sit down at a bench and share tales of the day with each other, perhaps to observe in companionable silence the Parisians that passed by. And afterwards, they might return to the Rue Plumet house to enjoy a simple dinner with just the two of them. What would come next, only the night shall tell.

Javert waited in the foyer, still and calm – not in the manner of a hunting dog in wait, but only as a man ensconced in careful joy. It was good that he no longer held the title of Inspector, for any criminal would no longer find him intimidating in the least; as someone who could keep in his soul nothing that would not also have shown on his face, Javert had softened beyond recognition. A lady passing by would almost have called him handsome.

For now, however, he was alone. His eyes fell on the stack of newspapers nearby, on top of which was the newest issue of Le Conseiller. Out of pure habit, he opened the paper to the advice column. This time, there were no harsh words of dignity nor moral duty. In fact, the paper had chosen to publish a long letter from a reader denouncing ‘the old woman’ herself:


             What signify all your grave lectures about prudence and propriety and dress and nonsense? No person of taste minds your antiquated morality and your obsolete notions. You do not, indeed, old mother, seem to have the most distant idea of gentility and high life, or you would never take upon you, as you do, to censure modes and customs which are sanctioned by the highest characters in the kingdom and therefore must be right…


Javert did not read the rest, for Valjean had picked that moment to appear.

‘You brought something?’ Valjean pointed to the package dangling by Javert's side.

Javert fumbled. ‘Just a silly thing. I thought to buy flowers, for that is what one does, is it not? Yet what would you have need for a bouquet when you’ve got a garden and can plant your own? So I went to the market and asked for some flower seeds instead. I should warn you, I have no clue what they will bloom into.’

Valjean took the bag and peered into it. ‘Thank you. Perhaps we could find out together.’ The older man smiled, and Javert felt himself awashed with a strange inner glow.

Was this to be his future? To be drowned in happiness, to walk the rest of his days not alone, to have by his side this man whom he had chased, tormented, owned his life to, befriended, loved, and saved in return?

He could scarcely believe it. Yet, he must.

Javert offered his arm to the older man. The act felt new and significant, somehow. Together, the two headed out, the only letters of the hearts that mattered were the silent looks shared between two souls who, despite all odds, had found each other in the end.

 

 

 

Some research notes (that I forgot to include): Some of the letters in the advice column in this story have been adapted from real letters in 1800s women’s magazines that were presented in the book: ‘A Magazine of Her Own? Domesticity and Desire in The Woman’s Magazine, 1800-1914’ by Magaret Beetham. La vieille dame (The Old Woman) was based on such a figure mentioned in the book. The last letter that appeared where a lady got fed up with the old woman’s uptight ways was lifted verbatim.

What about Cosette? What about Azelma?? I know, I have the same questions for me too. However, I feel their stories don't quite fit in with Javert's - at least, not now. I might continue with a sequel, or a companion, as the Valjean-lover in me refused to rest until that man sees just how completely loved and accepted he is by his family, and Azelma deserves better than being orphaned in this manner.