Title: The Mayor's Charity
Work ID: 50663854
Author: M_Moonshade
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Case Fic, Madeline Era, trying really hard to navigate a brand new relationship, Two middle-aged men decide to Talk About Things but neither knows how to do that
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 5/5

Summary:
“I’m not here for his charity.”A queer look crosses Fantine’s face then, visible for just a moment before she can smooth it away. “Of course not.”Javert’s eyes narrow, then widen as realization dawns on him. “You can’t be serious.” He grimaces in disgust. “His charity? Really?”“I’ve already told Monsieur, I only know that the pamphlets exist, not who makes them. But that seems to be the popular euphemism lately.”-Javert struggles to adjust to his new circumstances, so he throws himself headlong into an impromptu case: finding the source of the infamous "Mayor's Charity" pamphlets.

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Morning.

Javert stares at the bedroom door the way he once glared at the other end of an interrogation table.

It shouldn't be a cause for anxiety. It's just a door. It isn't even locked. He's slept in this room for weeks now without this kind of reaction.

But things are... different, now.

Last night was the first time he slept in this room altogether willingly, with no protest from him and no coaxing necessary from Valjean. Before now he’s always made an effort to slip away in those twilight hours before Valjean could wake, or else barricaded himself inside to make a morning meeting impossible. But yesterday that changed. Yesterday he and Valjean had a-- discussion, and certain things were decided. Agreed upon. 

If he steps through that door, it won't be to escape the house directly. He won't be fleeing from Valjean and the possibility of uncomfortable conversations-- in fact, today such an encounter is almost inevitable.

Thus: his newfound fear of the bedroom door.

 Stop it, he tells himself. You're being absurd. You wouldn't have half so much trouble if a gang of murderers was standing in the hallway. 

No-- if there were, he wouldn’t even hesitate. He would be compelled to act by duty.


 And what of your duty to him? 


The question makes his stomach swoop, but it gives him the last ounce of courage necessary to turn the doorknob and step into the hallway.

The world doesn’t end. Valjean doesn’t manifest before him to declare that he’s changed his mind and he wants him gone, or to do-- whatever else he might be moved to do at this moment. The hall isn’t entirely unoccupied, though: Cosette is a little further down, singing some little nonsense song while skipping over the patterns in the carpet. She looks like a completely different creature than when he first laid eyes on her: her cheeks are full and pink; her hair a mass of bouncing, shining curls; she’s gained at least a hand’s breadth in height; her clothes are warm and fine and beautifully made. There’s still an undertone of fear in her eyes when she hears the door open, but instead of turning to flee when she spots him, her entire face lights up.

“Good morning, Monsieur Javert,” she chirps, and gives him her best attempt at a curtsy. 

“Cosette.” He offers a small bow in return. It’s admittedly too formal a gesture, but for some reason it makes her positively giddy when he does it, and so he doesn’t refrain. “You aren’t usually here so early.”

“Aunt Marguerite is going to take me to school once they’ve finished bringing their things in. She said it’ll only take a little bit.”

Ah.

So that was today.

Valjean had informed him of that little arrangement during yesterday’s… conversation. As Fantine’s employer, he intends to take her and her household with him when he leaves Montreuil, and he’s invited them to stay in the guest rooms while the final preparations are put into order. Doing so saves her both the inconvenience of traveling back and forth between her home and his, and the rent she would be paying for the little attic room the three of them share. Apparently the only reason Fantine refused to move them in already is because she feared a threat to his position as a mayor if he took on an ex-prostitute as a live-in servant; as he’s stepping down from the position, that is no longer an issue. 

Valjean was deeply apologetic, last night, for not asking about Javert’s comfort with the change before he enacted it. As if Javert had any say whatsoever in the affairs of Valjean’s house. As if he wasn’t himself another freeloading houseguest--

He shakes himself from that line of thoughts before it can spiral. “Cosette, where are your mother and aunt now?” 

“They’re down with the carriage Monsieur sent for us,” she says, bouncing on her toes. “It’s really quite grand. Come see!” And she leads him down the stairs in a patter of little footsteps, to where the women’s belongings sit piled just inside the front room. It isn’t much-- neither Fantine or Marguerite had much of anything to their name before Fantine’s most recent change in vocation-- but the acquisitions of the last few months still make for an unwieldy load. 

Javert jerks his head toward Fantine in acknowledgement, and bends to pick up a small basin. “Where is this meant to go?”

“They’re still deciding that,” Fantine says, and nods in the direction of the other room, where soft voices are engaged in some kind of debate. “Monsieur seems to think it would be easier on Marguerite’s joints if she were to stay on the first floor, and she’s trying to tell him that she’s survived living in an attic for years now without incident, and she can handle stairs quite well.” She gives him a knowing glance, and he grimly returns it. He’s familiar enough with being coddled and catered to against his will, but it’s refreshing to see Valjean inflict it on someone else for a change. “But if you’re intent on carrying things, could you get that trunk over there? That one’s mine.” 

Javert grunts his assent and gets the back of the trunk-- it’s unwieldy, but not particularly heavy-- and lets Fantine lead him to her new room to deposit it at the foot of her bed. A few other sundries are already inside, particularly Cosette’s grand doll in its place of honor on top of the pillow. 

He turns to make a second trip, but Fantine stops him before he can quit the door.

“He asked about breakfast this morning,” she says with a secret smile. “Whatever it is you said to him last night--”

“--was overdue,” he finishes for her, before she can say something unnecessary. 

Still, she presses his arm. “Thank you.” 

He only manages a nod at that-- what else is he meant to say?-- and escapes down the stairs, only to be passed by Marguerite on her way up, pointedly carrying the basin he’d hefted before. The little old spinster has gotten her way, it seems. Meanwhile the master of the house stands at the foot of the stairs, watching her-- and, now, watching Javert as well.

Javert nearly freezes in place, but forces him to continue his descent. He has a task to perform, and he intends to see it done. Even if Valjean is right there, looking at him. Looking surprised to find him there, as if he expected Javert to vanish into the night (which, admittedly, precedent would suggest to be a safe assumption).

“Javert.” He steps back, respectfully, to give Javert ample room to move past him. “Good morning.” 

“Yes.” Damn him, he’s never had a knack for these pleasantries. He lowers his eyes and makes his way back to the pile, but not before he catches the look of mingled hope and apprehension in Valjean’s face. 

A  look shouldn’t be so terrifying. 

“Are you well?” Valjean tries again, and Javert might just flee outright. 

“Well enough,” he says, looking away. Here’s a bundle of linens for those shirts the old woman makes, and he grabs it just to have something to do with his hands. He dares another glance up, and the guarded expression on Valjean’s face cuts right through him. 

Damn it all, this isn’t working. Javert has set himself to-- to be better than he has been, and that means an end to hiding away and biting out one-word replies. But habits are difficult to break, and he’s long past out of practice with anything else. Still, he is determined to try.

“I am-- grateful to have something to do,” he says, jerking his head in the direction of the dwindling pile of luggage. “I-- wasn’t fully certain what I would do with myself now that I’m not--” Wallowing in misery. Hiding behind a locked door. Spending every waking moment guarding against the serum-madness in fear that it would shove aside the barricade and march him directly to Valjean’s bed.

“Ah,” Valjean says. His hands open and close at his sides. “Would you prefer if I stayed home?”

“No,” Javert says too quickly, and inwardly he flinches at his own abruptness. “You still have your duties. And-- I don’t want to see you chained to my side.” Again he nearly cringes at his choice of words, but he presses on. “See to your responsibilities. I’ll be here when you return.” 

Such a small promise shouldn’t light such a bright spark in Valjean’s eyes. 

Javert is setting the last of Fantine’s things in her and Cosette’s new room when he spots a bit of paper sticking out from between the pages of a book. The book itself is slightly battered and worn, with a cracked spine and small smudges to suggest its previous owner had little hands-- appropriate, given that it looks to be a book of fables meant for children. Less appropriate is the pamphlet tucked between the pages. 

He pales and snatches the pamphlet from its hiding place, and for good measure flips through the remaining pages-- and the two other books he can find-- for more like it. He finds none, but that is shallow comfort.

“What is this?” he demands of Fantine later, when Valjean has left and Marguerite has gone to take Cosette to school.

Fantine glances at the crumpled paper in his hands and raises an eyebrow. “Got your hands on one of those, have you?” 

“I found it in your room.”

“What-- were you going through my things?”

“In one of your daughter’s books!”

Her face takes a journey then-- from annoyance to shock to confusion and back to profound anger. 

“Oh-- that bastard!” She snatches the paper from him and looks at it closely-- and if there’s any blush to be had at the illustration, it’s overshadowed by the fury reddening her cheeks. “Which one did you find this in?”

“Aesop’s Fables,” Javert says carefully. 

“ Jaques .” She spits the name like a curse-- and Javert very abruptly thinks he might need to intervene before there’s a murder.

“Who?”

“The pawnbroker who sold the book to me the other day.” She bares her teeth like she intends to embed the false ones in his throat. “I should have known something was off from the way he was smiling at me. He knew me before, when I was on the docks. I’m sure he thought it would be hilarious.”

As jokes go, it’s in poor taste to give a former prostitute pornography of her current employer. Worse still: because Fantine can’t read, she has no reason to look through the volume-- meaning the pamphlet would most likely have been found by Valjean when he sat down to read to Cosette. It’s only a matter of luck that Valjean has been too distraught lately to dote on the child as he usually does.

“I’m going to kill him,” Fantine hisses.

“A figure of speech, I’m sure.” Javert snatches back the pamphlet and tucks it into his pocket. “You stay here. I’ll handle this.” 

“I thought you were done with murder.” 

“Murder, yes. But not arrest. And this,” he pats his pocket, “is illegal contraband.” 

There are, admittedly, some difficulties with that matter.

Javert has the evidence of a crime in his hands. He thrusts it into the offending pawnbroker’s face, he cites precisely which laws have been broken and their mandatory sentences. He’s imposing and upright precisely as he once was.

And he’s laughed at as just another lunatic zealot. Of course, when the pawnbroker finishes laughing, he tries to chase Javert out with raised fists. That proves to be the man’s real mistake: as Javert hadn’t been trespassing in his shop at the time, M. Jaques is guilty of assault-- which makes Javert fighting back a perfectly legal act of self-defense. Lawyers might quibble about Javert’s authority to search the man’s shop afterward and confiscate the illegal literature he finds there, but that would have required the proprietor to press charges, which in turn would require him to admit to owning and selling said pamphlets. 

Javert has become rather well acquainted with certain flexibilities in the law in the past few months. 

Most of the illegal literature he deposits at the doorstep of the prefecture, with a note detailing its origin, with one categorical exception: the series of pamphlets titled  The Mayor’s Charity , which he brings back to the house to study in more detail.

There are sixteen installments in total, ranging from prose to illustration to combinations of the two. All of it is pure pornography, and all of it focuses on the same subject-- though rarely in isolation.

The illustration he found in Fantine’s book features Mayor Madeline poised above a swooning woman, her dress hiked over her hips and her legs spread for him, his own trousers open to reveal a ludicrously inaccurate penis. A crowd of men and women is gathered around them, apparently waiting in line for their own turn, if the caption is to be believed:  “no need to worry, good people– there’s more than enough for all!”  

Javert himself is included in another-- wide-eyed and crazed, stylized until he looks more like a wolf than a man.

 “Arrest that man!”  the cartoon demands, pointing a judicious finger across the page.  “He’s surely a criminal!” 

 “It’s true,”  sobs the accused Madeline, draped in mourning over a tombstone.  “God save me, I am a killer!” 

Its epitaph:  “Here lies Anonyme, who was given too much and took every inch gladly.” 

The precise details of the poor anonymous lover’s demise are expanded upon in the accompanying story-- in great detail, and with florid vocabulary. Every so often the narration diverts from the acrobatics to return to the nameless Inspector, who spies on the whole affair from a hidden alcove until he is at last driven insane by jealousy and lust. 

It’s hardly a flattering depiction. 

At least he can hazard to assume that it isn’t a particularly accurate one, if Madeline’s caricature is any indication. In the illustrations-- even the ones that feature him clothed-- he is given a generic Adonis’ body, not nearly broad enough to suit him. When he is portrayed nude, his flesh is bizarrely blank: nearly hairless and completely devoid of its constellations of scars. The caricature’s prick is even worse: too outlandishly curved, the veins too exaggerated; it is far too long and not nearly thick enough to belong to Valjean. No, that monstrosity on the page would puncture Javert’s lung before it properly filled his mouth. 

The artist couldn’t fathom the heavy weight of it pressing down on his tongue, or the sweet ache as he stretched his jaw wider to invite a deeper thrust, or the intensity of focus that passed into euphoria as he taught himself all over again how to breathe, or the way tears sprang to his eyes as he was taken by ecstasy, his mouth watering and his cock leaking--

Javert groans. His trousers are painfully tight, the wool scraping against an insistent erection. 

That wasn’t meant to happen. He’s  working , for God’s sake-- but his prick refuses to bow to the command of his will. It remains precisely where it has found itself, alert and hard and ridiculously distracting. 

Muttering a string of curses under his breath, he reaches to unfasten his trousers and deal with the problem directly-- but something in his mind recoils from the thought. After spending so long staring at a cheap imitation, the thought of bringing himself off on his own hand is miserable. He craves the real thing-- he wants Valjean, or nothing at all.

He can almost see him stepping through the bedroom door, his gaze falling to Javert, seeing him in all his miserable shame-- but with no disdain in his eyes. Just that gentle understanding, that sweet indulgence. He would kneel at Javert's feet, his power and authority undiminished by being on his knees-- he would hold Javert's gaze, unblinking, as he slipped each button from its fastening, his blunt fingers grazing over the edges of each hole, tempting, teasing--

Javert pitches his head back, his spine arching to bring him closer, a low groan cracking in his throat.

Valjean would wrap his prick in that large, rough hand-- laborer's hands, even now, unafraid of hardship or work or filth-- would squeeze him just this side of too tight and pump, up and down, up and down, his calluses harsh against the tender skin-- steady and slow even when Javert begged him to go faster, harder, please please please-- and Valjean's gaze would be locked on his, beautiful and unshakable as the mountains themselves, and he wouldn't let him come, wouldn't let him find release, not until Valjean surged close and took his lips in a brutal, claiming kiss--

Javert is shaking when he comes. He caches most of it in his hand, but a splatter strikes one of the pamphlets spread across his desk (though not the one that features an unnamed citizen spread across a different desk, stretched open and clinging to the edge in anticipation--)

This, Javert observes, might prove to be a problem.

Fun fact: illegal books (often pornography) were frequently smuggled past the censors in the form of loose individual pages stuffed between the pages of more acceptable books.Also: Aesop's Fables was a common early reader for children right about now, because the Fables tended to be short and Improving in nature. So I thought I might incorporate some of the Fables into this story, so I read through a bunch. And after looking through dozens upon dozens upon dozens of these things, I found maybe three that wouldn't trigger Valjean into catatonia, and those only because they have absolutely nothing to do with anything related to him. But the sheer number of them that amount to "Bad People are Bad Forever and you should never trust them or associate with them, and if you ever do anything kind for them they Will hurt you" is absolutely staggering, as are the ones to the tune of "anybody who tries to change their lot in life or go against their Nature is delusional at best, but probably outright Wicked, and will be Punished for it".

It reminds me of what a subversive character Jean Valjean really was meant to be-- and why he was canonically so devastated by the idea of Cosette ever finding out that he used to be a Bad Person, if these were the kinds of bedtime stories he was reading to her on a regular basis.

But that's a motif that doesn't fit nicely into this particular story, so I'm setting it out for anybody else who feels inclined to do something with it.

"You spoke to Jacques, I take it," Fantine says, taking in the tears and dirt (and one prominent boot print) on Javert's clothes.

"There was some speaking involved, yes. It should be some time before he can replenish his stock of illicit materials." Assuming, of course, that the fines for distributing pornography don't drive him out of business entirely.

Fantine smiles. "Thank you."

Javert doesn't know what to do with gratitude-- he never has-- so here presses on to other business: "I wanted to know if you've already packed away my clothes. What I'm currently wearing might raise… concerns."

Fantine's expression softens. "That shouldn't be a problem at all. Come-- let me take a look." He trusts her to take his meaning without having to explain himself. Valjean will be returning home shortly. He's accustomed enough to seeing Javert dirtied and bruised, but typically that was accompanied by several days of sleeping in the gutter and antagonizing the police, and usually in the throes of madness. Now, after all these weeks kept cloistered safely indoors, the sudden change would only be cause for alarm.

“While you do that,” Javert says, “There’s something else I’d like you to look for.”

She raises an eyebrow, and he tries not to take it personally. He isn’t accustomed to asking for things-- or even to accepting them when they’re offered. It takes an effort to get the words out. “When-- this-- first started, Valjean purchased some… particular articles.” Javert had refused them outright. Bad enough that Valjean insisted on foisting new clothes on him every time the madness dragged him to this house-- that he insisted in dressing his charity case like a  gentleman was beyond the pale. On those mornings Javert had left wearing only what was necessary for the sake of public decency, leaving the rest pointedly untouched where he found them, until Valjean had taken the hint and replaced the finery with the coarse weaves and cuts befitting a vagrant laborer. “Does he still have them?”

It isn’t as though Valjean would have needed to pawn them off for money, or that he’s short on space to store them, and he isn’t the type to throw out unwanted things in a fit of pique (God only knows that Javert himself wouldn’t have lasted so long if he was). But it’s entirely possible that Valjean found someone else in all these months who would be grateful to be on the receiving end of such prodigious charity. 

The thought gnaws at him as Fantine leaves to dig through Valjean’s wardrobe, and he finds himself wondering if he should have followed her. How extensive is the collection of clothes set aside for donation? Javert knows he hasn’t been the only pitiful stray pawing at the good mayor’s coattails-- how many of them dared to follow Valjean home? How many of them--

“Stop that,” Fantine says, pushing a pile of fabric into his arms.

“Stop what?” 

“Working yourself up. I can see it, you know.” 

“I’m doing no such thing,” Javert mutters-- though now that he’s paying attention, he’s aware of the heat in his face and the race in his pulse. 

“If that’s the case, then I’m sure you’ll have no problem talking to him about it like a proper adult.” She gives him a pointed look. “But first, consider changing your clothes. Marguerite will be home with Cosette any moment now, and Monsieur won’t be far behind.”

Javert doesn’t have much of a choice after that except to retreat to the room (his room) and make himself presentable. 

Still, Fantine’s advice sticks to him like a briar. 

 Talk to him. As if it’s that simple.

What exactly is he meant to say? 


 Good evening, Valjean. After a day of critiquing pornography, I’ve come to the conclusion that you have an exemplary cock and I desperately want it in my mouth-- before or after dinner, whichever you prefer.  



 Hello, Valjean. You’ve made it clear how you feel about me harming myself-- but tell me, what’s your opinion on self-abuse? Would it help if I described what I was picturing at the time? 



 Welcome home-- now that I have you, allow me to audit every act of charity you’ve engaged in within the past year or so-- euphemistically and otherwise-- because it seems that despite my best efforts at distancing myself from you, I’ve developed a streak of jealousy.  


Even in his own head, he sounds like an utter reprobate. 

The question hounds him over dinner, where he manages to mumble a greeting to Valjean and almost nothing else, and late into the night.

He’s still agonizing over it the next morning, when he dons the finer clothes Fantine found for him. The linen of the shirt is expertly made, the threads so fine that it’s nearly translucent, but starched to the point of respectability. The waistcoat is some kind of watered satin, which seems to ripple as it catches the light, and the dark blue of it contrasts remarkably against the crisp trousers. These are too thin for the practicalities of a laborer’s budget, but aren’t so ostentatious as to invoke dandyism. 

Javert has avoided putting on this outfit for precisely the reason that Valjean gave it to him in the first place: because it is camouflage. The uninformed would greet him as a gentleman; even those with knowledge of who he is and what he’s done would find their distrust mollified, transforming him from a dangerous madman to a mere eccentric. It’s the same reason that Valjean dresses as he does, and why he’s taken such pains to change the way he speaks to sound less provincial and more refined. The entire ensemble is a balancing act between simplicity and elegance, conveying a buyer who is well off, but not so wealthy as to inspire curiosity. 

And in the eyes of society, an eccentric gentleman has at least as much credence as a sane peasant. 

And that could not be allowed-- not in those weeks after Javert’s trial.

In obedience to his conscience and his duty, he had denounced Madeline as Jean Valjean-- but even that had been a compromise of his principles, spoken only after he was sure it would be dismissed as delusional ravings of a broken mind. A competent policeman would still give those words their due consideration, but he knew his officers well: there would be no investigation. Valjean was safe, but only so long as Javert was a pariah.

Hopefully by now Javert’s reputation among the police is cemented thoroughly enough that it won’t be budged by a change of clothes. And in Paris-- 

In Paris he’ll have to find some other way to proceed. 

He’s still pondering that when he emerges into the hallway, and finds himself sharing the space with the man himself. Valjean’s expression is shuttered, but not before Javert catches a soft intake of breath and the flick of eyes down to his shoes and back up again. 

Javert bristles under the scrutiny. “Really. I can’t be as frightful as all that.” 

“Not at all,” Valjean says. “You’re looking more like yourself than you have in-- quite some time.” He hesitates, and his lower lip skirts close to his teeth as if he might like to bite it. Then, deliberately, he admits, “You’re very striking like this.” 

“I aim to avoid striking anyone today if it can be avoided,” Javert says reflexively, and then stops himself. Deflecting a compliment comes easily to him, but it signals that the attention is unwelcome. He’s made the decision to stop driving Valjean away, and he intends to stand by it. “I can dress this way more often, if you prefer it.” 

Perhaps he doesn’t imagine the little flicker of hope in Valjean’s eyes. “I only want you to wear what makes you feel comfortable,” Valjean says-- safe, diplomatic, subdued. 

“Not only, I think.” Javert takes a half step closer, crowding into Valjean’s space in an attitude that might be closer to interrogation than he intends. “I think you have a preference.” 

“You aren’t a doll,” Valjean says, his eyes low. “You aren’t here for me to dress for my pleasure.”

“But you’re the one I intend to please.” Javert steps closer still. “Your opinion signifies. So: what pleases you?” 

Perhaps he’s coming on too strongly, because when Valjean meets his eyes, there’s a note of anxiety in his gaze. He looks almost like a deer caught in the edge of a thicket, frozen as it decides whether to bolt. 

Javert is struck by the impulse to flee himself, but he forces himself to remain still and wait for the reply.

“I-- don’t know,” Valjean admits at last. “I haven’t allowed myself to consider it.” Visibly he gathers his nerve, and lets his gaze dip down over Javert’s body again. “But-- I like this. The way these clothes look on you. The way you’re holding yourself-- with intent, and focus. I--” Slowly his eyes slide back up to meet Javert’s. “I enjoy being the subject of your focus.”

Javert dares another step. Valjean is forced to shift backward to accommodate him, and there’s a light scrape of fabric against wallpaper as his shoulders brush the wall. Valjean’s face is red with fluster, his eyes wide, vulnerable in a way Javert can only begin to comprehend. 

Javert should kiss him.

That’s the right thing to do now, he’s sure of it. He knows it would be welcome-- Valjean has said as much outright. But Javert has never initiated such a thing before, not in his right mind, and those other advances had been aggressive and coarse-- entirely absent the respect and care Valjean deserves. 

The seconds are ticking away. He’s been standing here for too long, hasn’t he? Just pinning Valjean to a wall and staring at him like a specimen in a museum. Anything bestowed on him now would inevitably be disappointing-- but at this point, he can’t retreat without painful awkwardness. 

There's no alternative. He braces himself against the wall with one hand and leans in to press a chaste kiss to Valjean's lips.

Or-- it's meant to be chaste. 

He wasn't expecting that  sound Valjean makes, or the inviting way his lips part, or the way he pushes off the wall to press against Javert's body.

Javert doesn't know what he's doing anymore, only that he can taste Valjean's mouth and his tongue slips between those lips on search of more and it feels like an intrusion, an invasion, a violation, but Valjean only moans and kisses him harder,  hungrier --

"Did you change your mind about that meeting?"

Javert jerks back like he's been struck by lightning. He whirls, disoriented-- and then his gaze falls on Fantine. "What?"

"Monsieur has a meeting this morning. I wanted to know if you'd like a quick breakfast before you headed out-- unless you've decided to change your plans?"

Valjean squeezes his eyes shut, looking for all the world like he'd like to disappear. "No. No, I need to attend. Thank you, Fantine. It completely slipped my mind."

"It seems like your mind was otherwise occupied," she says graciously. "You go set yourself to rights, and I'll have breakfast ready by the time you come down."

Valjean looks nonplussed at that, and a hand moves tentatively to his hair, as if confused that it might have fallen out of place. In fact it's hopelessly mussed, and his cravat is askew, and his shirt looks like Javert was trying to yank it off through his waistcoat-- which, admittedly, he was.

"Let me." Javert starts toward him, only to be pulled back.

"I'm sure Monsieur can handle it himself, with the use of a mirror," Fantine says pointedly. "Javert, you can help me with the table."

Javert scowls, but Valjean clears his throat. "Yes, I think I can manage. Thank you, Fantine. Javert."

Before Javert can say anything else on the subject, Valjean has rushed into his own room.

Javert scowls even harder at Fantine. "And here I thought you were in favor of this--!"

"I am," she says lightly, already starting down the stairs. "But I know how you two can get, and a central hallway at breakfast is neither the time nor the place. You aren't the only ones in the house anymore, you know."

It occurs to Javert, quite suddenly, that he hadn’t considered what might happen if someone else had stumbled across them just now. Which would be worse-- having to explain their position to little Cosette, or consoling Valjean after the elderly Marguerite dropped dead at the sight of them? 

Discretion will be necessary.

He hadn’t needed to consider it before now. In his fits of madness the concept had been immaterial to him; for the rest of the time, he was too concerned with avoiding Valjean completely for it to be an issue. 

Fantine, all but dragging him down the stairs, seems to be aware of the conundrum. 

“You might want to direct those activities to more private areas of the house,” she remarks, calmly, as though recommending a particularly effective cleaning agent. “Preferably ones that have locks on the doors.”

“I didn’t plan for that to happen,” Javert grumbles.

“I can see that.” 

He doesn’t even know what to make of that tone. “I didn’t think he would react like that!”

“Remind me,” she says dryly. “How many times have you two been together?”

“That’s entirely different.” He grabs a stack of plates from the elegant china cabinet and begins setting them out. “I was insane at the time-- and he was acting out of some misguided sense of altruism.”

“Oh yes. I’m sure he was feeling very  charitable toward you just now, too.”

Javert flushes scarlet, already halfway toward sputtering about the indecency-- when he stops short.

“You’re referring to those pamphlets.”

She gives him a sidelong glance before gathering handfuls of silverware. “When you said Jaques would need to replenish his stock, I didn’t realize you meant you were bringing them home with you.”

“I--” He can’t even demand to know what she was doing in his-- in the room where he sleeps. As the housekeeper, it’s her job to clean the rooms and refresh the linens as needed. He's never had to deal with that before. He’s always insisted his porters and landlords stay out of his spaces, both to better control his funds and to keep work materials out of unwanted hands. “You weren’t meant to see those.”

“Then you ought to not keep them spread all over your desk.” 

“Yes.” He clears his throat and busies himself arranging the silverware more neatly around the plates. “They’re for an investigation.”

She raises an eyebrow at him. “I thought you said you dealt with Jaques.”

“I did. But he’s merely a distributor. I want to put a stop to the printing in its entirety. On which note,” truthfully, he’s mostly just desperate to move the conversation in a different direction, “Does Valjean take any newspapers?” 

“He buys them on the way to the office, I believe. Mostly, I think, so he can overpay the sellers.” Of course he does. “Why?” 

“Montreuil has an unusual number of printing presses for a town of its size,” Javert explains. He suspects Valjean has been anonymously subsidizing a number of them, though the schools he sponsors likely also create a disproportionate amount of literates among the lower classes compared to other places Javert has been. “I don’t know which press created these, but each one has certain flaws and patterns in its reproductions that carry over, regardless of what’s being printed on them. Legitimate newspapers are easier to trace to their source.”

“But first you need to get your hands on legitimate papers.”

“Precisely. And I hardly have the money to buy them. I might be able to find used ones in the garbage, but that will be inconsistent at best, and--”

“And dressed as you are, that’s going to attract attention,” Fantine says. 

Their conversation is put to an abrupt halt by a flutter of tiny footsteps coming down the stairs.

“Good morning, maman,” Cosette chirps, giving her mother a kiss on the cheek the moment she bends toward her. “Good morning, monsieur Javert. You look very handsome today.” 

“Doesn’t he?” Fantine asks. “Monsieur thought so, too.” 

Javert pointedly does  not glare at Fantine in front of her daughter. Though he’d like to.

Cosette and Marguerite don’t remark on the earliness of breakfast (it occurs to Javert that Fantine would likely have prepared their meals before setting off to come here in the mornings, and it isn’t unlikely that today’s breakfast is unusually late to them) but they are enthusiastic about the selection. Fantine has outdone herself with a spread of eggs and sausages and bacon, bread and butter and jam, and crepes from a recipe she says she picked up while in Paris. She shovels piles of food onto Valjean’s plate before he has a chance to give his opinion on the subject, with the sort of speed and precision that suggests she’s had too much practice encouraging him to eat. Both to avoid her wrath and to employ some communal pressure on Valjean, Javert takes pointedly generous portions of his own. 

He expected that conversation at the table would continue to be as awkward as it has been between himself and Valjean, but he’s thankfully spared: the others are comfortable enough eating together to not be discomfited by Javert’s intrusion, and any space for awkward silence is filled by Cosette twittering on about the new room she shares with her mother. During a brief pause as the girl catches her breath, Fantine interjects:

“Javert was telling me that he wanted to buy something in town.”

Javert freezes, barely restraining the impulse to clap his hand over her mouth before she can give any more detail. He looks to Valjean, racking his mind for a way to phrase his explanation in a way that won’t scandalize everyone at the table, to apologize, to--

Valjean’s entire face has lit up. “Of course. Whatever you’d like.” And then, “Fantine, would you show him where I keep the money for sundries?” 

“As soon as we get the dishes done,” Fantine says, with no small degree of smugness. “Oh, and I wanted to know-- since you’re planning to go in early today, are you still intending to come home at the usual time?”

And that’s it. 

Valjean doesn’t press for more information. He doesn’t ask what Javert is setting out to buy, or where he intends to get it, or how much it will cost. He doesn’t ask why. He doesn’t remind him to bring back receipts-- as though Javert could get such a thing from half the sellers he intends to see. 

He doesn’t seem to care, beyond a moment of sparkling pleasure that Javert is willing to ask for anything at all.

“He likes to give things to the people he cares for,” Fantine explains later, while Javert helps her with the dishes. “Do you know, I had to ask him not to shower Cosette with presents when she first came home with us-- I told him she needs to learn how to ask for the things she wants, and not just hope that someone else might divine it from her thoughts.” She leans in to properly scrape the char off a pan, and between her teeth she adds, “Dealing with the two of you has opened my eyes to what sort of trouble  that can cause.”

If Javert could refute that, he would, but  he can’t, and so he merely grumbles under his breath.

“I think it pleases him, though,” she continues. “Indulging people. Seeing their needs met, and giving them those little luxuries they don’t think they’re allowed to have.”

He casts a quick glance at her false teeth-- finely made, and likely more expensive than she would have been able to afford even on the generous salary Valjean pays her. But she smiles so much brighter now than she did before. 

Javert doesn’t give voice to that thought. Nor does he speak of the research he conducted early on, when he first arrived in Montreuil-sur-Mer and laid eyes on Jean Valjean, when he dug up every scrap of information about the convict he knew Monsieur Madeline to be.

He doesn’t speak of Faverolles, or of seven children and their widowed mother, or of the endless jobs Valjean took on in addition to his work as a tree-pruner in order to keep food on the table.

He doesn't speak of a loaf of bread purchased with nineteen years of a good man's life, only to be thrown into the gutter.

But he wonders, secretly, how helpless Valjean must have felt then, with all that strength and intelligence and still no hope of feeding starving children. And now! Without a second thought he can rescue a child from torment, can save her mother from the gutter, can lift an entire town to prosperity.

Perhaps to a man like him, it would feel like power, like pleasure-- and perhaps not so much at all like pity.

"Indulgence," he repeats thoughtfully. It is a far better word than charity.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



There’s something surreal about walking the streets dressed as a gentleman after so many months wandering them as a vagrant. People look at him now, where their eyes had glazed over and hurried past him before. A few nod politely before their expressions change, caught in the dissonance between what they see with their eyes and what they remember about 

him

, specifically. But they simply fall back, blinking in confusion, without uttering a word.



He purchases a collection of Montreuil’s legitimate papers from a stand and sets them in the briefcase Fantine offered him-- and, for good measure, approaches a number of streetcorner papersellers for copies of the more independent broadsheets. His growing stack of purchases draws their eyes in particular, and it isn’t long before he’s swarmed by gamins who push their wares into his face and make a transaction before he can get a decent look at what they’re selling. By the time he returns to Valjean’s home he has multiple copies of quite a few, but at least he has them. 



With insufficient space on the desk, he spreads out the papers in piles on the floor. (He very briefly considers the enormous dining room table for his task, and then catches a glimpse of yet another piece of pornography among the day’s purchases, and immediately rejects the idea.)



He arranges them into stacks according to the name of their printer among the legitimate papers, and already little patterns begin to jump out at him: the broken ‘r’ that always appears toward the bottom of the page in the 

La Observateur

, when the unblemished letter blocks have apparently run out; the jittering look of 

Les Quotidiens

, where the blocks are apparently just slightly too small for the case that holds them; the uneven print in the bottom right-hand corner of 

La Tribune

, where he suspects the case is cracked or broken somehow. With those clues, he can piece together the origins of some of the independent papers-- the ones that are crafted in legitimate printing shops after hours.



And then his investigation hits a snag.



Some of the 

Mayor’s Charity

 pamphlets feature that telltale broken ‘r’, some jitter, and some carry that too-light right-hand corner. 



They’re printed by different presses.



He sits back on his bed, staring at the spread of paperwork littering the floor (and pointedly not at 

Number Six: The Poor Widow Feasts

).



Not a single press, then-- and likely not an employee simply making use of the presses after hours. But some of the owners will let their equipment to independent makers, for a fee. The author of the pamphlets might be going from press to press, in an effort to hide their crimes from the censors-- assuming that there was only one author at all.



The spelling has been carefully checked, with no errors that could be prescribed to unfamiliarity with words so much as to carelessness. The prose is in the popular melodramatic style, which seems distinct until one reads more than a few pieces of it. And the images--



He focuses on those more closely.



Each one has Madeline in common; he’s inaccurately presented, but consistently so-- the same idealized figure, the same absurd dimensions, the same curl to his beard and hair. And despite the flaws, it is always clearly, noticeably him-- not pulled from the press’s collection of stock illustrations. And the caricatures are skillfully rendered-- the person who created these has experience.



Javert looks closer at the comics, this time dragging his eyes away from the actions of their subject and focusing instead on the little details. The crosshatches are so thick that they nearly bleed together; the stipples are thin and light; peasant dress is remarkably accurate, and even the wealthier characters are clothed in fashions several seasons out of date, rather than imitating the latest from the Parisian papers. 



That alone rules out several among the local artists. 



And the pamphlets’ artist has a particular talent for passion: even compared to some of the other illicit images that have found their way into his piles, there’s skill here. The faces, in particular, have a strange delicacy to them: the way the subjects’ mouths fall half-open as if they’ve forgotten themselves in their pleasure; the way the brows rise toward the center, their jaws slack, as if in their lust they’re hearing holy music that demands their full attention. A head falls back upon its shoulders, the throat bared, looking back with worshipful gratitude to the mayor who was buried up to the hilt inside them. 



Has Javert looked at him like that? He’s certainly been in that position: folded over a desk, pushing against the polished wood in order to feel Valjean’s cock pressing deeper, looking over his shoulder to watch him from the corner of his eye as Valjean’s brow furrowed in concentration, as his lip slipped between his teeth, as his hair gathered in sweat-slick coils around his face. 



Even beyond the rapture of being so perfectly filled, even beyond the blaze of pleasure every time Valjean thrust

 just so

, there was something euphoric about being the sole subject of his attention. 



It occurs to Javert that he's hard.



Again.



This is getting ridiculous-- he wasn't this distractible when he was half his age. The Javert of his youth would have sneered at his susceptibility to a few lines of ink on paper.



But then, the Javert of his youth had refused to let his gaze linger too long on a certain man at the end of the fourth chain. He'd adamantly resisted thinking about him at all, except in the most strategic sense. And so he'd told himself that his prisoner was especially dangerous -- that his restraints needed to be checked thoroughly and often for defects-- that he needed to be worked hard to keep him exhausted-- that he needed constant close scrutiny in case of mischief. Any misconduct on the part of his own body had been studiously ignored until it went away, and it always went away eventually. He dreamed, sometimes, but that was just a reflection of the stresses of the waking world-- it didn't mean anything.



In short: the Javert of his youth was an imbecile.



Unfortunately, the man he is today is only marginally brighter.



It won’t be long before Valjean returns home-- perhaps he’d be willing to lend his assistance with the issue at hand, so to speak, but Javert has no clue how to ask for that help. What is he even supposed to say? 



Insanity had made it seem so very simple-- he hadn’t stopped to consider that demanding to be fucked within an inch of his life is unpardonably crass and disrespectful, or that grabbing a man from behind and kissing him breathless is even worse. Valjean might have made allowances for Javert’s mania before, but now? When he’s mostly sane?



Truth be told, he might still allow such behavior without recrimination, but that doesn’t make it acceptable.



A lifetime of chastity doesn’t exactly teach a man how to have such conversations-- nor does arresting people already engaged in public indecency-- and he isn’t prepared to interrogate Fantine on the subject. But previously she advised he seek out privacy, and perhaps a door with a lock to ensure it. That much is certainly a start. As is the suit that elicited such a strong reaction from Valjean before. 



He sets to work putting away his investigative materials: the stacks carefully organized for ease of understanding, with the most illicit hidden toward the bottom to protect against prying eyes. Fantine knows enough about his efforts by now not to disturb the pile once she sees it, and there’s no evidence that Cosette has taken to playing in this rooms while it’s unoccupied--



The girl’s footsteps flutter past the door at a run, as if she’s been summoned by the thought of her. A moment later follows her enthusiastic warble: 



 "Welcome home, Monsieur!"



Javert cracks the door and creeps into the hall, just far enough that he can spy down the stairs. Valjean is bowing to Cosette like she's an empress, and she giggles and returns a lavish curtsy. Their movements have the familiarity of ritual to them-- they greet each other this way often-- and Valjean's smile is warm and beaming.



Valjean is absolutely radiant when he’s happy.



Javert will be damned if he tries to interrupt the moment with a clumsy attempt at seduction. 



It’s Fantine who intrudes on them to give her reports on the day, and Cosette takes again up the stairs.



“Javert, did you see?” she chirps, catching him before he can retreat back into the room. “Monsieur’s home!” 



Javert tries very hard not to look down the stairs again, but he can feel Valjean’s eyes turn to him. “So I’ve heard.” 



She looks at him oddly. “Are you going to make faces again today?”



He flushes.




Making faces.

 That’s what she calls his episodes of insanity.



She’s seen him that way, but apparently she’s taken cues from her mother’s fearlessness toward him, and now she assumes it’s just some ridiculous game he plays sometimes. And she might as well: even in the throes of madness he’s displayed no animosity toward her, no aggression, and he hasn’t even spoken harshly in her direction-- it might even be called companionable, compared to the treatment she endured in Montfermeil. 



But that is a very low bar to clear.



“I don’t plan to,” he says.



In fact, he hasn’t sunk fully into an episode since the attempt on his life. That was the last time he was in mortal peril, after all, and since then he’s made concerted efforts toward remaining calm and subdued. 



Maybe too much of an effort, he thinks miserably after Cosette has skipped away. 



In his fits of madness he has no trouble getting Valjean in his arms-- or in his bed-- or inside him, thick and heavy and large enough to leave him aching and satisfied for days after--



There are precious few circumstances that will trigger the change, and none he would risk-- not for something as petty as this. How could he look Valjean in the face after? What would he say-- 

I had enough nerve to carve up my own skin, but not to kiss you?




He’s hurt Valjean in enough ways already. He won’t do that to him. 



He watches Valjean over dinner, and then tries very hard not to watch him. Once again, Cosette comes to his rescue there, and takes charge of the conversation. Tonight she’s prattling on about the letters the sister at school taught her, and the meal is barely finished before she’s running off to fetch a slate and a book. Javert can't help feeling some measure of pride in the little girl: apparently, after every lesson she insists on teaching her mother and Marguerite what she's learned. Neither of them were able to do much more than sign their names before-- now they’re starting toward literacy, if only to encourage Cosette’s enthusiasm. But it seems that usually these lessons would wait until she’s returned to their little attic room.



“Go on,” Valjean tells them when dinner’s finished. “I can take care of the clearing up.”



“But it’s my job to do it,” Fantine protests.



“You do far more for me, and you do it well. No one could ever accuse you of shirking your duties. But I think tonight your daughter takes precedence.” He gives her a warm smile. “I got by passably enough before you came. I promise, cleaning up after myself a little won’t do me any harm.”



Fantine looks like she might protest again, so Javert clears his throat. “I can assist. As many times as you’ve had me help you with the dishes, you must not think me completely incapable.” 



The result is precisely what he expected: Fantine’s eyes tick from him to Valjean as she draws some inevitable conclusions. At least she makes no further arguments after that point, though she gives Javert a very particular look before leaving-- probably to remind him of the lecture she gave him earlier that day regarding her specialty cooking oils and what he’s not permitted to do with them. 



He merely glares and starts gathering dishes. He does not think about that pointed look she gave him, or about the assumptions she made, or about the things that he’s done with Valjean in this dining room beyond clearing the table. Fantine might be relieved (or disappointed) to know that the appointed task is accomplished without either one of them ravishing the other in a fit of passion. By all means, the most untoward thing that happens between them is Javert rolling up his sleeves so that the too-fine linen won’t be ruined by dishwater. 



Which is to say that it’s mundane, even if it isn’t entirely unmarked. Javert doesn’t look to Valjean while he prepares to wash the dishes, but he can still feel the other man’s eyes on him, following the slide of fingers and fabric.



He grunts. “I don’t know what might be of interest to you about my forearms, Valjean. You’ve seen more skin than that from me.”



Caught, Valjean averts his stare. 



“It’s different like this,” he confesses. “You aren’t baring anything you might-- regret showing me, later.” 



Javert grunts again, because that’s more dignified than meeting his eyes, and more practical than pushing the sleeves back down to his wrists. Because he can’t deny that he 

does 

regret some of their encounters. It makes him cringe to think about his behavior-- shameless and crass and lewd, all the ugliest parts of himself on full display to the one person whose opinion he values most. And even now, he knows precisely what his serum-mad self would say to him: that he can show Valjean plenty of things that he won’t regret

 right this moment

, if he’d be so inclined.



Javert’s voice sticks in his throat, and Valjean wordlessly leaves to fetch a basin of water from the pump. 



They wash and dry the dishes in near silence, the only sound the clink of plates and silverware. Too many times Javert wants to reach out to Valjean, but he can’t-- not when his hands are dirty and clammy from dishwater. 



A giddy laugh filters through from the front room, and Valjean glances toward the source of the sound.



Javert swallows and attempts nonchalance. “You’re planning to read to her tonight, I take it? After they’re finished?”



Valjean looks surprised. “Did she tell you about that?” 



“I’ve seen you, a few times.” He doesn’t elaborate. It occurs to him that confessing to spying on Valjean won’t be particularly welcome. He ducks his head and turns his focus to a particularly stubborn bit of char in the bottom of a pan.



“Yes,” Valjean says, after a moment. “I was planning to.”



“Then I won’t keep you.” No, that sounds wrong. “Go on and make what preparations you need-- I can finish here.” 



Valjean is looking at him still, uncertain, as if he’s trying to read meaning from between the words. And there isn’t-- there shouldn’t be-- but now that Javert listens to what he just said, he realizes that it sounds too much like a dismissal. 



He clears his throat. “Perhaps you can come to see me. After.”



The glimpse of relief in Valjean’s face makes Javert feel warm in a way he doesn’t know how to describe.



Unfortunately, that warmth can only carry him so far. Not long after the dishes are done, Javert finds himself pacing his room like a caged wolf, ready to tear his hair out.



What was he thinking, asking Valjean to come here? To do 

what,

 exactly? Share another stilted exchange as they try to fumble their way through a conversation about absolutely nothing? Hear a confession about how Javert’s baser lusts are driving him to distraction? Maybe he could snuff out the candle, lock the door, and pretend to have fallen asleep-- Valjean might think that he simply took too long reading to Cosette and eat himself alive with guilt over the imagined slight, or he’ll take it as a rejection, that Javert changed his mind--



Javert is barely aware of the roaring in his ears until it becomes nearly unbearable. He’s at the verge of a change. Of course he is-- why wouldn’t he be, right when he’s invited Valjean to see him in the middle of the night? He could give in to it, he thinks hysterically, greet Valjean fully in the throes of an amorous frenzy, drag him to the bed, and be fucked the way he’s been craving. It would be so much easier than this!



But Valjean deserves better.



Javert breathes-- the kind of slow, measured breaths that push the madness a little further away. He can’t keep thinking about this-- he’ll drive himself insane if he does. He needs a distraction. He needs a case. 



Preferably not 

this 

case, but it’s the only one he has at the moment, and so that’s what he takes. He grabs at the first newspaper from the stack, flips through it, forces his eyes to focus on the illustrations. The first was rendered by an incompetent who’s clearly never seen a human nose in their life. The second is an obvious stock image. The third accompanies a reprint of a Parisian article-- likely the illustration block was purchased along with the story. And the fourth-- that one might be promising. A small image, simple and tucked into the middle of the paper. Not the sort of thing that the artist would get paid handsomely for. 



Javert marks the page and sets it aside, then grabs for another paper-- this one is almost entirely stock images, and thus useless. The next has a heavy-handed preference toward high fashion, but has one or two images toward the back that might warrant a closer examination. He’s well on his way into a fourth when he hears a feather-light tap at the door.



He barely registers the sound before he scrambles from the desk, his heart racing, and rushes to answer. 



Valjean is there, looking strangely small despite the way his broad frame fills the doorway. Behind him, the hall is only dimly lit, with all but one of the lamps extinguished for the evening. His face is caught in the glow of Javert’s own lamp, which flares brighter than he usually keeps it for the sake of catching the fine details of the illustrations. The golden light sits warmly against Valjean’s skin and glitters in his eyes like starlight. 



"You came," Javert says stupidly.



"You asked me to." It's almost a question: has he changed his mind?



Never mind that Javert was contemplating just that only a handful of minutes before-- the idea of Valjean leaving now is intolerable.



"It's late. We're going to keep everyone awake if we keep standing in the hallway." He steps aside to let him in, and then Valjean is in the room and the door is closed behind him and Javert doesn’t know what he’s doing. "Was the-- reading-- successful?"



He regrets saying that almost instantly. He doesn't know the first thing about reading to children, but he knows that it’s a ridiculous question. 



But Valjean smiles softly. "I think so. Cosette seemed to enjoy herself."



“It’s a respectable habit to instill in her.” Yes, that sounds less vapid. “Giving her a taste for improving literature.”



“I think so far she’s more interested in the animals than in the lessons they’re meant to impart,” Valjean admits. He flashes a small smile. “But those will come in time. I imagine I might have taken more of an interest in reading if it had been nested in fairy tales.” 



That shouldn’t be a surprise. Valjean is so enthusiastic about literature, his penmanship so careful and clean, it’s easy to forget that he didn’t spend his childhood engrossed in books. But he didn’t-- Javert remembers seeing him struggling over a slate in the school for convicts at Toulon, snarling at the books in frustration until the Ignorantin friars trembled in terror. Javert finds himself wanting to ask about it, but he can’t bring himself to invoke that place. 



“I’ve never been particular toward reading myself,” he says instead.



“Oh?” Valjean glances in confusion at the stack of newspapers on the desk, the latest of which lies haphazardly open from where he jumped up to answer the door. Not far beneath it, perhaps only barely hidden by the rest of the stack, are the incriminating pamphlets. 



Javert’s face heats. “Those are for-- a personal project.”



“I didn’t realize you were working on something.” Valjean’s countenance lights up with interest, and he steps closer to the desk. “You must tell me about it.” He reaches out to smooth the disheveled paper, to get a better look, and Javert sees a vision of what is to come. The stack of papers scattering at the gentle touch, the respectable publications falling to the floor and leaving behind pages upon pages of pornography-- Valjean recognizing himself in the images, recoiling with embarrassment and disgust and anger-- 



“Don’t touch that!” Javert snaps, his teeth bared like a wounded animal, and Valjean yanks back his hand as if it had been nearly bitten. 



For an instant he looks bewildered, almost shocked, but just as quickly he schools his expression into the carefully placid mask of the mayor. 



“Forgive me,” he says gently. “I didn’t intend to pry.” 



That gingerness chastens him more thoroughly than a raised fist. Javert lowers his eyes. “I-- didn’t intend to show you that. Yet,” he clarifies, because that’s important. This isn’t a secret. He isn’t keeping secrets from Valjean in his own home. “I don’t have enough of a handle on it thus far to explain it properly. Once it’s ready, I will of course give you a full report.” 



Valjean’s mouth parts in the beginning of a question, but he changes his mind and leaves it unasked. 



“Of course,” he says instead. He hesitates. “What did you intend, then? When you asked me to come?”



Whatever he intended, it was a mistake. He doesn’t know what he’s doing. He’s never been adept at holding conversations with anyone, least of all Jean Valjean, and any skills he did manage to build have atrophied over the past months. All he knows how to do anymore is snarl and run away-- every attempt to do otherwise has been difficult and painful and awkward.



Every attempt except for one. 



“I--”



He swallows. Tries to remember the man Valjean was, growling at the uneven scratches of chalk on a slate, who now writes with a skilled hand and reads for pleasure. 



It is worth the effort to learn-- worth it enough for him to struggle through it, and worth it enough for his teachers to remain at his side, despite their trembling. 



Jean Valjean is made of sterner stuff than Ignorantin friars.



Javert tries again. This time he leans into his one clumsy success. “I wanted to know if you’ve given more thought to the question I asked you this morning.” 



Valjean raises his brows, clearly searching his mind for what the question even was. But far too much can happen in a day, and a single turn of phrase can be lost amidst the rush of activity, even if it’s been hounding Javert since he gave it voice. 



“When I was an agent of the law, I devoted myself to it entirely. But from the moment I killed Jekyll, I think that devotion has turned to a different subject. I’ve fought against it, tried to reject it, with no success-- and I thought that once I gave in, once I accepted it for what it was, the struggle would be over. I have resolved to be-- to act-- not as I have been. But as resolutions go, it is-- insufficient. I can only guess at what actions I’m not to take; I don’t yet know how to serve you.”



“Serve me?” Valjean blinks, suddenly alarmed. “This was never-- Javert-- I never meant to suggest-- you don’t owe me anything.” 



“It isn’t about what’s owed.” He nearly growls in frustration-- he doesn’t have the words for what he wants to say. He barely even grasps the feelings themselves. “I want to-- to indulge you, if I can,” he says, borrowing Fantine’s word. “To give you what you want. But I don’t even know what that is.”



“I don’t need you to do anything for me,” Valjean says. “I don’t need anything.”



“I’m not asking what you need,” Javert says. “I know too well that you have managed to survive on less than nothing. What do you 

want

?”



“Nothing.”  



But that isn’t true. Javert knows it isn’t true-- Valjean told him himself! So why bother to keep up the lie?



“Damn it, Valjean-- you insist on giving everything to everyone around you. Is it so hard for you to be selfish for once in your life?”



That was the wrong thing to say.



Valjean’s expression nearly closes off entirely. There is only the barest crack in the facade, but it’s enough for Javert to see the guilt there, the anguish, the self-recrimination. "I have never been anything less than selfish, when it comes to you." 



Already he’s beginning to curl into himself, he’s angling himself toward the door, ready to flee.



It would be hilarious, if it wasn’t so painful to watch: all these months he spent failing to chase Valjean away with snarls and insults, when all along it was an offer of affection that would have sent him running.



Fine. He won’t hear Valjean ask for what he wants. 



He still has the earlier confession, voiced with that same outpouring of guilt.




I wish that you would come to me because you enjoy my company. Because you welcome my touch.




And later:




I enjoy being the subject of your focus.




He’d certainly seemed to enjoy other things about this morning.



He steps forward, crowding into Valjean’s space. Valjean freezes again, but he doesn’t bolt for the door. 



“What about this?” Javert mutters, his face not even inches from his. “Does this-- please you?” 



Valjean looks a little bit terrified, but fear is not the same as that awful resignation. 



Javert knows, because he’s a little bit terrified, too.



Valjean swallows. “Yes.”



Javert lifts a hand to cradle his cheek. “And this?”



The nod is faint and tiny, but it is there. 



Javert leans in until his lips are all but brushing Valjean’s when he whispers, “And this?” 



Valjean’s breath comes out in a soft exhale as his head tips back. The kiss is soft, delicate-- but Javert has no idea what to do with delicate. He wraps his hands around Valjean’s shoulders and pulls him in closer. This morning Valjean invited him in deeper-- now Javert flicks his tongue over the seam of his lips, and is gratified to be welcomed in again with a needy little sound. The feeling is exhilarating, more heady than snuff, and he leans deeper into the feeling and harder against valjean. Javert kisses to consume him, teeth against lips and tongue roving, tasting and 

taking 

until the need for air forces them apart. Even then they’re pressed together, panting like chargers into each other’s mouths. 



Javert pushes a little bit closer again, his cheek grazing against the softness of a well-groomed beard as his lips brush Valjean’s ear. “Do you want more?”



“I’ll take what you want to give me.” It’s so soft that the words are nearly lost in the heavy breaths.



“Answer the question, Valjean,” Javert growls. “Do you want more?”



He can’t see the nod of his head, not this close, but he can feel the tiny movements of it-- barely more than a tremor. 



He’ll take it.



Javert pulls Valjean’s earlobe between his teeth and bites down-- not so hard as to break skin, but it’s enough to wrench a raw cry out of Valjean’s throat, to make his hips buck against Javert’s thigh. He’s already hard. 



Javert’s hand slips between them to palm Valjean’s groin; his questing hand is met by another shallow thrust, perfectly in time with Valjean’s breathy little gasp. 



“More?” Javert asks.



He’s met with another tiny nod, so faint it might just as easily be a shiver.



“Let me hear you say it, Valjean.” 




“Yes.”




“Good.” Javert presses an open-mouthed kiss to the skin beneath Valjean’s ear, baring his teeth just enough to scrape them over the sloping muscle of his neck. And then again, lower, and lower still. He removes his hand from Valjean’s cock just long enough to unknot his cravat and loosen a few buttons, though even that much is enough to elicit a needy whimper from him.



“That’s right-- you want my hand right 

here

, don’t you?” He slips that hand down beneath the fabric of Valjean’s trousers and grabs his cock. With anyone else he might worry that he’s handling the tender flesh too viciously, but there’s nothing short of satisfaction in Valjean’s answering moan. 



“That’s right.” He nips again at Valjean’s neck, more ruthlessly now that he knows the marks here will be hidden from prying eyes. “Open your trousers for me. Let me see you.” 



It sounds more like something that he’d say while out of his mind, but the words drip easily off his tongue. Valjean's face is flushed scarlet, but he fumbles the buttons there, one and then another, and slowly the fall gives way. He has half a mind to keep going as he is, vicious and brutal, but he loosens his grip and slows his hand. He pulls back until only his fingertips ghost over the velvety skin there, tracing from the base to the leaking tip and back again.



“Lovely,” he whispers into Valjean’s shoulder, then pulls back just enough to look down through the space between them. “You have an exquisite prick, do you know that?”



This close, he can feel the heat radiating from Valjean’s face. “I don’t--”



“

You do.

” He smears his thumb across that pearl of wetness and around the head, and is gratified to feel the tiniest shiver under his hand. “You drive me to distraction, Valjean. Thinking of you makes it hard to focus. So very hard.” He twists his hips to grind his own erection against Valjean’s thigh, but he finds resistance there-- Valjean’s fingers are caught against his own trousers, fondling the buttons.



“Take me out, Valjean,” he whispers. “Let me show you what you do to me.” 



One after another, Valjean unfastens the buttons and lets the flap fall. Javert wraps both cocks in his large hand and pumps them together, the slide rough under his calloused palms. All the while his eyes are on Valjean-- on taking in the naked want in his eyes, the way his mouth hangs half-open, the way his breath comes harsh and heavy, and then entirely stifled as Javert kisses him again. 



Valjean’s hands curl around his shoulders, and Javert pumps them harder, faster, until he thinks they might both ignite from the friction alone. It’s Valjean who comes first, his gasping cry stifled in Javert’s mouth, his hands squeezing Javert tighter, pulling him in, his whole body shaking as he spills himself into the space between them. His spend is hot and thick as Javert scoops it onto his fingers and rubs it on his own cock, marking himself as his, his, his-- and then he’s rattling apart in Valjean’s arms. 



They come down slowly, Javert’s sticky hand moving lazily back and forth over their softening members, clinging to the haze to avoid thinking about a different problem that is suddenly harder to ignore.



He has absolutely no idea what’s supposed to happen now.



Horror and shame are creeping up his spine, unprompted by anything except for habit. Normally this would be the point where he’d damn himself for 

yet again

 failing to control himself, and for forcing Valjean into 

yet another

 unwanted encounter.



But this one 

was 

wanted, he tries to remind himself. This one was welcome. He hasn’t done anything wrong-- though perhaps he’s done it poorly, coarse and clumsy and too fast and too much and--



“Javert?” 



Valjean is still here. He’s still here and he’s close and he’s looking at him with growing concern, and Javert can only guess at what’s playing across his own face. Valjean shouldn’t see him like this-- and that other habit rears its head, that instinctive desire to bare his teeth and snarl and chase Valjean from the room so he won’t see-- Javert wrestles that urge to the ground, just barely-- doesn’t it understand that running him off would be even worse? 



He can feel that roaring in his ears again, he can feel the change rushing toward him, and oh God-- what would that even look like? Until now the change has always pushed him toward sex with Valjean, has always been ended by it-- what would it do now, when that’s already happened? What other horrible things is he capable of?



He tries to breathe, breathe, 

breathe

, but his lungs are too tight, his ribs feel like they’re collapsing--



“Javert!” Concern has become alarm now, and Valjean is backing away, his hands raised as if in surrender, his face pale.




Oh look,

 Javert thinks hysterically. 

You’ve run him off after all.




“Are you-- did I hurt you?” He looks to the door. “Should I--”



“No,” Javert gasps out. He fumbles for one of Valjean’s hands, pulls him back. “Please-- please don’t--” The words won’t form, so he clutches tighter at that captured hand, all too aware that his grip is flimsy and his whole body is shaking and Valjean could just walk away, turn around and leave and decide he’s done with this mess for good, and maybe he should, maybe--



There’s a warmth against his cheek, steadiness against the violent shaking, an anchor in a storm. A hand, large and strong but careful, so very careful, like it’s handling blown glass. 



“Then I won’t,” Valjean says, and he steps closer, just an inch at a time, until his captured hand is pinned between their chests. “I’m right here, Javert. I’m not going anywhere until you say.” He pauses. “Maybe not even then.” 



Javert squeezes his hand at his chest, leans hard against the one at his cheek. Valjean keeps murmuring comforting words to him, but Javert is too focused on maintaining the steady in-out of his breathing to follow what he’s actually saying. At some point he thinks he must have been walked backward toward the bed, because now he’s sitting down and Valjean is beside him. Probably for the best-- he’s stiff and sore all over, and an attempt to flex his legs informs him that they wouldn’t be able to hold his weight for much longer. 



Valjean squeezes his shoulders in a one-armed embrace-- when did he move his hand from Javert’s cheeks?-- and murmurs, “would you like to get up?”



“No,” Javert rasps. He couldn’t if he wanted to. The panic is fading in earnest now, but in its absence all that’s left is a bone-deep exhaustion. He wants to keep leaning against Valjean’s side forever but the awkward position is starting to become uncomfortable. “I should-- lie down.” 



“Of course.” 



Valjean’s arm flexes slightly around his shoulders, all that power turned to impossible gentleness as he eases Javert back to recline on the bed. The feeling of the mattress against his spine is a godsend-- God, he’s so tired. 



There’s a tug at his fingers as Valjean tries to retrieve his hand from Javert’s grip, and Javert realizes belatedly that he’s still holding onto it.



In other circumstances he would be mortified by that fact. He would release his hold immediately and apologize until his voice went hoarse. In the moment he only has enough capacity to know that Valjean leaving might be the worst thing that could possibly happen.



“Don’t go,” he mumbles, urgently, though he’s already fading. But he feels the bed dip low beside him, and the comforting warmth of another body beside his, and at last he surrenders himself to unconsciousness. 


(Mmm, that awkward moment when you’ve conditioned yourself into freaking out after otherwise perfectly fun sex.)

(Also: my familiarity with printmaking extends to linotype and screen printing, and only at a hobby level. Most of the detail I include here is, therefore, a combination of extrapolation and bullshit, with a couple details on the prolific nature of broadsheets in Victorian Britain borrowed from  The Invention of Murder by Judith Flanders. The thing about stock images? Completely true-- especially the smaller presses liked to use them to convey the general idea of what was going on in the story, even if it meant radically changing major details of the people involved in the stories-- lots of lower-class people got portrayed as upper class because that’s just the stock image they had available at the time. Having dug through stock photo databases for Writing Reasons myself, that struggle continues to be real two hundred-odd years later.)


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert wakes when he feels Valjean rising from the bed. A dim light is filtering through the windows. It’s morning.

The realization is chased by a wave of mortification as he remembers how the night ended-- with a fit of hysteria that nearly descended into full-on serum-madness. That Valjean hasn’t fled is purely because Javert begged him to stay, one more act of miserable pity--

Indulgence, the word comes back to him in Fantine’s sharp voice, and he clings to that word like a piece of flotsam in the midst of a hurricane. He has to believe-- he has to at least allow for the possibility-- that it might have been  indulgence instead, if only to keep humiliation from dragging him into another episode of madness. 

Javert realizes, belatedly, that Valjean has stopped moving. He’s sitting up, leaning over on one arm, his attention clearly on Javert. Slowly Javert forces his breathing to settle and his tightened muscles to relax, in an attempt at feigning sleep. 

In answer he hears what must be a sigh of relief. The mattress shifts under Valjean’s weight as he leans in. Javert can feel the warmth of Valjean’s breath on his brow, as if he intends to press a kiss there-- and then Valjean must change his mind, because he rises instead.

It's no wonder he can feel Valjean's every movement-- this bed is far too narrow for two adults, let alone two men of their stature. And yet here it is that they've spent the night. Judging by the feeling of recent chill, Valjean lay curled with his chest against Javert’s back, knees slotted behind his thighs, one arm curled around his waist. Even so, they were both nearly hanging over the edge.

Valjean moves silently as a cat, but Javert can still sense him padding toward the door. Perhaps it's that careful silence that betrays his tension.

Which means it's Javert's turn to gather his courage.

"A larger bed," he blurts out, his voice still slurred from sleep. 

Valjean freezes, just inches from the door. "Forgive me, Javert. I didn't mean to wake you."

"Clearly not, sneaking out like you've just left a gold louis on my mantel." He turns to fix Valjean with a dirty look. "I know about those, you know. A few people actually came to the prefecture to report an inverse robbery. They seemed to think that Father Christmas must have come several months early."

"Ah." He looks aside, obviously uncomfortable with mention of his altruism. "What was it you were saying before? I didn't catch it."

"A request." Since Valjean apparently enjoys granting them. "I don't know what arrangements you've made regarding your property in Paris. But if you haven't yet procured furniture, you might consider a larger bed."

Valjean turns slowly to face him, his expression inscrutable. "Is this one not to your liking?"

"It's sufficient for one occupant," Javert says, pulling himself to sit up. "But a tight fit for two."

Javert's vision is hazy this early in the morning, but he doesn't miss the surprise on Valjean's face. "You would like to do-- this-- again?"

"Unless you wouldn’t?" There is still a very real chance that he doesn't. But the nature of their previous encounters gives him cause for hope-- or at least, for doubting Valjean's good sense in such matters, which amounts to the same thing.

"No," Valjean says quickly. "I enjoyed last night-- before--" He starts forward and then back again, not afraid to come too close, but unwilling to be any sort of threat. "But-- Javert, if I hurt you-- or if I did something to upset you--"

"Hurt me?" Javert gives him another look. "Are you aware that your shirt is open? You must be-- I imagine those bruises are tender."

Valjean squares those marked-up shoulders. "I asked for those. I want to know if something happened that you didn't ask for."

"You forget who was doing the asking."

"Javert."

Javert glowers at nothing. There's no evading this, is there? "My--  episode -- was none of your doing."

"Then what happened?" Exonerated, he steps closer. "Javert, please. I only want to understand."

“I thought it was self-explanatory," Javert grumbles. "I believe l lunatics are prone to bursts of erratic behavior.”

Valjean shakes his head. "I know how you are when you aren't yourself. This was different. You were-- you were terrified.” 

“Not for any rational reason.”

"But for a reason regardless, even if an irrational one."

Javert fidgets with the blankets. He might try standing straighter, if he wasn't still half stretched out in bed. "I can't explain what happened. I can't tell you why, or promise it won't happen again. But you were not the cause."

"You're sure."

"I'm certain."

"Then did-- the rest that transpired-- was it any help?" His voice betrays a thread of hope so sincere that Javert has to wonder which one of them is the madman. The fact that it happened at all should rightfully be enough for Valjean to put an end to their association. Instead he seems more concerned with finding ways to ease the affliction.

It takes Javert a surprising amount of effort to give a nod of his own. It's one thing to admit his infirmity. Asking for  help for it is another thing entirely. But he'll do it. For Valjean he can swallow his pride.

And it's worth it, because Valjean finally sits back down on the edge of the bed. With gentle, careful movements he reaches out and touches Javert's cheek. His smile, when Javert leans into that touch, could light the night sky.

It is only that: only a nod, a touch, a smile. There are no kisses, savage or otherwise, no bites, no hands wandering to more intimate places. And yet it is intimate in a way Javert can’t put into words. There are only feelings here: the warmth suffusing his chest, the comfortable weight of Valjean’s gaze on him, the peace of having him so close. 

Valjean can only stay for a few minutes more before he has to leave-- though this time, his movements drag slightly as he tries to put off his departure, instead of trying to slip away unnoticed. It can’t be helped. He's still in last night's clothes, and they're obviously wrinkled from last night-- and possibly also stained. Ordinarily Valjean does some preliminary cleaning after one of their encounters, but last night Javert had hardly given him the opportunity. Javert's own clothes are in a similar state-- unfortunate, given that these are the finer things that act as his passport to interact with civil society. 

So it is with deep chagrin that he approaches Fantine after breakfast. The articles are neatly folded, but between the visible wrinkles and the plainer clothes on his person, it's obvious enough that they're unusable.

"That was quick," Fantine observes.

"Yes." Javert might die of consternation, if not shame. "Do you have anything else that's similar? I suspect I'll need to go out again soon."

"I'll see what I can do," she promises, but not without giving him a look. "Though next time you might consider taking them off first."

He successfully manages not to flush at that.

It shouldn't be enough to cause fluster. He's been nude in front of Valjean before, more times than he would like to count. But those encounters were different-- in the moment he'd always stripped off his clothes like a slavering animal, too wild to feel self-conscious of his nakedness-- and then in the aftermath, crushed by the full weight of his guilt and shame, too humiliated already to bother hiding himself while Valjean tended to him.

It wasn't far removed from the way Javert had looked over naked prisoners at the bagne, mostly unfeeling except for disgust and contempt--

No, he reminds himself, he knows better. Valjean would have tried to frame it in a kinder light: the pious distance of a nurse bathing an invalid.

Neither one is a feeling Javert particularly wants to invoke between them.

In order to avoid hounding Fantine for the clothes, he retreats to the guest bedroom and returns to the matter of the pamphlets. The patterns in the illustrations are obvious, now that he knows to look for them, and he digs into the other newspapers as he did last night. 

The thought brings a flush of heat to his face. 

He might have gotten more work done last night if he hadn’t been interrupted, he tries to grouse, but he can’t quite push aside the nature of that interruption-- the soft shudders and gasps Valjean made under his ministrations, the feel of his prick in Javert’s hand. 

It’s distracting enough even without the lewd illustrations giving him ideas. (Would Valjean like him in his lap? Would Javert even fit there? Valjean’s too strong to be crushed under his weight, but it can hardly be  comfortable -- can it?) 

He violently shoves the thoughts aside and throws himself more deeply into his work, weeding and pruning the collection of papers until he’s gathered several likely contenders, which must then be cross-referenced with the incriminating images for the sake of precision. 

Only precision. 

And not at all to take in the look of rapture on the caricature's face and compare it to what he saw last night, before he got too lost in his own head to really enjoy it.

Damn it all, he's going to put that look on Valjean's face again. It's just a matter of  how . 

Determined, he throws himself back into his work. Several illustrations are set aside as clear matches by the time Fantine knocks at the door with the laundered clothes and a reminder that lunch is ready.

Once fed and properly attired, he makes his way out into the main streets of Montreuil. The air of respectability his clothes give provide sits more comfortably, now. He leverages it to its full extent when he steps through the doors of La Tribune’s front office. It takes little enough effort to demand a meeting with one of the editors-- more so because he promises to keep it brief. 

“Monsieur…?” the editor says carefully, the word hanging unfinished, like he can’t decide if he should add the rest of the title. He recognizes Javert, clearly, and just as clearly he has no idea what to make of the way he’s dressed. He settles on polite neutrality: “What brings you here today?”

“I recall that you keep detailed records of your contributors.” He can’t exactly forget-- at one point he had to search those files in the past for an incredibly tedious libel case. 

“We do,” the editor says. “But I’m sure that you also recall that getting access to those records requires--”

“I don’t need all of them,” Javert says impatiently. “Only one.” He reaches into the borrowed briefcase and produces a recent copy of La Tribune, already folded to expose the correct page. “The illustrator of this image here. A regular contributor, I believe.” 

The editor frowns at the page. “Is he in trouble?”

“That remains to be seen,” Javert says. “I am conducting an investigation in which he is a person of interest. And to that end, I need his name and address. I’m confident that won’t be a problem.” 

He turns the full weight of his stare on the man, who fidgets accordingly before he shuffles out of the office, returning a few moments later with a name and address on a slip of paper.

Not one to be any less than thorough, Javert does the same at two other publications, if only to ensure that the information is accurate-- and from there, he finally follows his leads to the address of one Jean Thayer. It’s a small flat in a middling part of town: an artist, even an artist regularly selling his works to newspapers, is lucky to make a respectable living in a town as small as Montreuil-sur-Mer. Yet Javert suspects that this one’s earnings are greater-- and less respectable-- than most other artists of his caliber. 

He raps sharply at the door. And, a moment later, does it again.

“I’m coming, I’m coming,” a man’s voice calls out, muffled by the wall between them. “I already told you, I got caught up with other work. I’m going to need some more-- oh!”

The door opens then. Whoever it was Thayer expected to see must have been significantly shorter than Javert, because for that first moment the man’s eyes are turned to Javert’s cravat. He turns his gaze up, slowly, and Javert is presented with an imitation of what ancient Hebrews might have looked like when presented with Goliath: the slow crawl of the other man’s stare up toward his eyes, the mounting dread, and finally the fear as he realizes exactly who standsin front of him.

“Oh,” Thayer squeaks. And in an even smaller voice: “Ins-- mons-- Inspector Javert?” He, too, turns Javert’s title into a question.

In answer, Javert shoves his way inside.  “Jean Thayer, I believe.” 

(His name sticks on Javert’s tongue.  Jean .)

“Th-that’s me.”

“Multiple witnesses have identified you as the illustrator of these images.” He withdraws the papers from  La Observateur  and  Les Quotidiens . “Were they speaking accurately?”

The man’s eyes widen in horror-- tremulously, he looks down at the papers, and then visibly relaxes when he sees they are legitimate and mundane. “Y-yes, monsieur. That’s my mark down at the bottom there.”

“Yes.” Javert sets them aside and reaches into the briefcase again. “Curious, then, that you didn’t sign these.” 

“What? Why would I--” The blood drains from Thayer’s face even before Javert thrusts the pamphlets at him. “I’ve never seen these before in my life.”

“If that were true, you would be more outraged at me showing you pornography. But you know these images.”

Thayer shrinks back. “I don’t.”

“Don’t lie to me!” Javert snarls, and he brings the full weight of all his years of authority behind it. 

Thayer looks like he might faint. “I didn’t-- I wasn’t-- it was just a bit of good fun.”

“Your good fun has dragged the reputation of a government official through the mud,” Javert growls. “Every one of these lewds is undermining his authority.”

“I’m not!” Better that Thayer is too terrified to think clearly, or he might question what Javert himself has done by publicly accusing Valjean of criminality. “These were meant to be flattering!”

Javert sneers. “You think Monsieur le maire would look on  these  and be  flattered ?”

Somehow, at the bottom of his cowering, Thayer seems to find a grain of courage.

“B-but they’re not meant for  him , though, are they?” He gathers himself together, just slightly. “There was a ready market of people who were-- were interested in him. I wouldn’t have sold so many of these if there weren’t. But I never meant to do it at his expense or anything-- I never tried to make him look-- like a bad mayor or anything like that.” 

“Only a lecherous one.”

“Well, yes, but that’s what porn is, isn’t it?” He rubs at a threadbare sleeve. For the author of such popular pamphlets, he is barely out of poverty. “But he wasn’t ever meant to see it. I mean, you know him-- do you think he’s going out of his way to buy this sort of thing?” His face pales further, until it’s nearly the same shade as the paper in Javert’s hands. “Oh-- oh no-- did he? Did he see these? Oh God in Heaven.” At least he has the decency to feel ashamed about that. He looks up, his eyes already watering. “Are… are you going to arrest me?” 

Javert gives an impassive glower, but finally he relents. “No. I don’t have that authority here.” 

Thayer sniffles a little at that. “No?”

“But this stops,” Javert says, rattling the page for emphasis. “The mayor will not be the subject of your pornography. No more.”

“None?” Thayer asks too quickly. “But-- but I already have the last one half finished!” 

Javert’s eyes narrow at that. “The last?”

“Well, yes,” Thayer says, and he turns away to descend deeper into his room. He digs into a writing desk and pulls out a half-carved woodcut, the sketch still dark on the unshaved parts of the block. “He’s going away, isn’t he? I mean, I’m sure people will still be thinking of him fondly for a while after, with everything he’s done, but they’re going to find someone else to lust after before long, so there’s no point continuing the series.” He shows Javert the block. Despite being far less obscene than most of the other illustrations, it’s enough to make color rise to Javert’s cheeks.

“Fine,” he mutters. “This one-- and no more. After this, the series ends for good.” 

He makes his excuses to leave, muttering out a stern but toothless warning on his way out. There’s nothing he can do to stop it.

He pointedly ignores Thayer’s parting remark as an exaggeration. No one else has ever accused Javert of being merciful.

This chapter was a bit of a doozy for me to write. I triggered myself multiple times (not even from typical triggers-- just little moments that hit too close to a previous relationship) and then one day I was working on this during lunch, forgot to close the tab, and accidentally screenshared Javert contemplating his recent sexcapades during a work meeting. (Nobody's brought that up since, so I'm hoping they just saw that it wasn't the excel sheet they were expecting and didn't look any closer. But I did spend two solid days freaking out about it.)


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Javert marches slowly back toward Valjean’s residence. 



Internally he tabulates the coins he spent on all those papers and pamphlets-- far more than he could earn back before the week is done. He suspects that even if he had the money to make the repayment, Valjean would refuse it outright, because he is already a wealthy man with no regard for the principal of the thing. 



But even without the issue of wasted money, he can’t entirely put this matter behind him. He promised Valjean a report on the investigation upon its completion. Had he specified its success, perhaps, he might have felt at more liberty to put it behind him, but he was fool enough to speak in generalities.



He owes Valjean an explanation.



He bides his time throughout the evening, but the rituals of domesticity won’t shield him forever. Before he can lose his nerve, he catches Valjean’s eye and mutters a quick, “after you’re finished reading,” before slipping away. 



Strangely, waiting for Valjean to arrive is easier tonight. He dreads the other man’s reaction to the report, but at least he can prepare himself for the worst of it. In the privacy of the little room, he recites and refines answers to Valjean’s inevitable reactions. The imaginary conversations leave him agitated, but at least it feels somewhat productive. 



At last he hears footsteps ascending the stairs and moving past the door-- Cosette’s tiny feet dragging on the floor, Valjean’s heavier steps slow to accommodate her, and then moving faster after she is tucked away in her bedroom.



Javert opens the door for him before Valjean must trouble himself to knock. On Valjean’s face is anticipation, which quickly shutters into neutrality when he catches sight of Javert’s expression. 



“Has something happened?” he asks.



“Only that I’ve concluded my project.” Javert reflexively he straightens into parade rest. “If you would shut the door--” He doesn’t want a bleary-eyed Cosette stumbling into this conversation. Valjean sees to it, and Javert forces himself to continue. “Fantine has informed me that you’ve been made aware of a series of popular pamphlets that feature yourself as their subject.”



“I have.” For just an instant, Valjean’s eyes tick in the direction of the newspapers piled on Javert’s desk. Javert’s face heats-- even if Valjean can’t see the pornography hidden low in the stacks, he must be able to guess that they’re there, and what Javert has been doing with them.



“I have tracked down the identity of the author of the series,” Javert continues, trying very hard not to sound like he’s defending his actions from the well-deserved scrutiny. “I attempted to-- persuade him to cease their publication. I have his information, should you elect to press charges against him on grounds of libel. But as the series has already reached its conclusion,” he braces himself, and visibly Valjean does the same, “I released him with a warning.” 



It’s unacceptable. Were Javert still a member of the police, such obvious neglect of duty would warrant severe reprimand at best. 



But he isn’t. 



And to his consternation-- though not quite his surprise-- the tension in Valjean’s frame relaxes, and he is met instead with a smile. 



He finds he might do nearly anything for a chance to bring out that smile.



“Thank you, Javert,” Valjean says, and surely it is the warmth in his tone that has Javert’s face heating further. 



“You shouldn’t be thanking me,” he mutters. "I was negligent in my duty."



"You were merciful."



"I--" Javert drops his gaze; if he looks much longer, that look might just overwhelm him entirely. It’s more than sufficient to feel it directed at him. “I thought it might be what you would prefer. But--” A gentle hand cups his cheek and nudges his gaze back up, just in time to catch the chaste kiss Valjean presses to his lips. He lingers there, content to bask in the feeling, until slowly Valjean pulls away. “I can’t pretend to understand it.”



“Things like this can’t be prevented.” Even without looking at him directly, Javert can identify the self-effacing shrug of Valjean’s shoulders. “And at least the subject seems to get people interested in reading. It seems not everyone is as drawn to the promise of talking animals as Cosette, when it comes to literature.”



Javert might inform him that 

that 

literature exists, too, but that might derail the conversation entirely. 



He forces himself to meet Valjean’s eyes again. “Still, your reputation--”



“Is in more danger from my own actions than from anything in a few pamphlets. I’m not the first public figure to feature in political cartoons-- no, not even cartoons like these-- and I’ll hardly be the last. If anything, I would rather be featured as a promiscuous man than an unfair one.” His expression clouds as a thought crosses his mind. “...Was I?”



Because of all aspects of this situation, 

that 

is the one that causes him concern.



“No,” Javert says quickly, determined to smooth away the care from his features. “Inappropriate relations aside, you weren’t ever depicted as corrupt. The artist was emphatic on that point, and I can confirm.” He hesitates. “Did… you hope to see them?” 



“No, please.” A small laugh has returned to Valjean’s voice. “I’m afraid it would only make me self-conscious.” 



Javert nods, and resolves to hide the pamphlets away someplace difficult to find. “They’re a poor likeness, anyway. If they’re meant to be a character study, it’s of your disguise alone. There’s nothing on those pages of Jean Valjean.” 



They’ve parted somewhat, but Javert is still close enough to watch the little thrill of frisson raise the hairs on Valjean’s neck. He makes a mental note to use his full name more frequently. The moment passes, and Valjean raises his gaze to him. 



“That’s a relief, I think. No suspicions of a galley slave?”



“None,” Javert confirms. “And no adequate appreciation for your form, unfortunately.”



Valjean quirks a brow. “What?”



“The images don’t do you justice. Any part of you.” Javert allows himself to reach out, just enough to trail his fingertips over the cuff of Valjean’s sleeve. That generic body on the page was missing the raised scars of manacles and lashes and prison-yard accidents, but also the soft dusting of hair, the tantalizing swell of muscle. His fingertips probe deeper, slipping just between the tight cuff and the scar-smoothed skin with an intimacy that borders on the obscene. “Just as well that the illustrations are so absurdly inaccurate. If your other admirers had seen a fraction of what I have, they’d never be content with mere drawings.” 



He glances up, just to make sure he hasn’t gone too far. Valjean’s mouth has gone slack, his lips parted, his eyes hooded. 



Javert swallows. Practice is making this easier, if only incrementally, but there’s still a thrill of anxiety as he gathers his courage. “With your permission, I would request a chance to-- try again. At-- last night.” God above, how does anybody put it into words without combusting on the spot? “I will endeavor not to spoil the matter with unprovoked hysterics.” 



“You haven’t spoiled anything.” Valjean smoothes a thumb down Javert’s whiskers, and he leans in closer. He inhales, soft enough to be mistaken for a sigh, but Javert can recognize the hallmarks of a steadying breath. “Will you let me take you to bed?” 



Never mind that it was Javert who broached the subject-- the tenderness of the question has him flushing crimson, even as he manages an awkward nod. 



It shouldn’t be necessary that Valjean lead him by the hand to his own bedroom-- it isn’t even twenty paces away-- but in that moment Javert isn’t entirely sure what would become of him without the gentle tether of that hand in his. 



“May I?” Valjean asks, barely audible. When he receives a second fumbling nod, he begins the slow work of unfastening Javert’s buttons, one after another. 



His waistcoat is slipped from his shoulders and set carefully aside, and his shirt follows suit. 



It’s far from the first time Valjean has seen him bare-- or the first time he’s taken Javert to his bed with the intention of having him-- but it’s different this time, in a way Javert can’t put into words. 



His fingertips catch on Valjean’s shirt before he even realizes he’s reaching out.



“Will you--” He can’t quite voice the rest of the question, too afraid of breaking this spell between them. But maybe it’s clear enough in his eyes, because Valjean nods in turn and begins working on his own buttons. 



He’s seen the full expanse of Valjean’s skin-- unavoidable in the bagne, even if Javert had made any attempt to avoid it-- but never here in Montreuil. The glimpses he’s stolen have always been piecemeal, a few tantalizing inches of skin underneath torn fabric or rucked-up clothes. Now Valjean moves deliberately, slowly, watching Javert from the corner of his eye, waiting for his judgment.



Javert bows his head and stamps a kiss to Valjean’s chest, just beneath the scar of the collar that once bore his number. A second, to the place where the barrel of a pistol once pressed, when Valjean put his own body between Jekyll and Javert. A third, to that tender bleeding heart-- and a fourth, and a fifth. 



Strong hands cup his jaw and draw him back up, and for a while he is lost in the simple sensation of Valjean’s lips on his own. There is a moment when he thinks he might surrender to passion, when he might allow himself to rake his nails down tender skin, to take it between his teeth and bite down until Valjean is writhing beneath him. Instead he pulls back, breathing hard, and eases the shirt from Valjean’s shoulders. 



He wants to do this right. He wants to--



The thought arcs across his mind like a bolt of lightning across the night sky, stunning and impossibly bright.



“Javert?” Valjean asks tentatively. 



For once, Javert has the words.



“I want to make love to you properly,” he says, and even though it feels foreign on his tongue, it’s right.



That’s what makes this different from those other encounters.



Valjean’s breath catches, and he gives a small nod. Javert finishes undressing him with careful, reverent movements, then guides him to sit back while he takes off the last of his own clothes. 



He isn’t sure exactly which direction he’s meant to proceed-- what would be crass or crazed or undignified-- but instinct has him leaning in and kissing him again. His face, his throat, and lower still: every scar and striation, every dip and curve and line. He worships every inch of Valjean, from the crown of his brow to the arches of his feet and back again, showing particular care to those parts of him that were most ill-used. He’s straddling his lap when Valjean sit up beneath him, one arm looping around Javert’s waist to pull him close, their chests flush until they’re all but melting into one another, and the only thing Javert wants is to be closer.



“Open me,” he gasps into Valjean’s mouth. “Please, let me have you inside me.” 



Later he’ll think back on this moment with a clearer mind, and he’ll realize that the drawer Valjean reaches into is one that that must have been stocked in advance for this moment (he will find a thousand ways to thank Fantine for her foresight that don’t involve him saying those words out loud), and that he’s gained the answer to the question he’d forgotten he even asked himself (if Valjean feels any discomfort at having Javert in his lap, the rapture on his face doesn’t show it), and answers to other questions he never thought to ask at all (what Valjean’s tears taste like, kissed off his cheeks; what his laughter sounds like, captured in Javert’s mouth). 



But in this moment there is no room for thought. Only for the feeling of Valjean against him, beneath him, inside him; of rocking gently together; of the warmth that suffuses every inch of him until he’s overflowing with it, until he’s squeezing him tight and whispering 

Jean, Jean, Jean

--



He comes down again slowly, like a feather descending. There are still eddies of overwhelm and anxiety on the breeze, threatening to pull him away, but they seem distant and insubstantial compared to the strong arms wrapped tight around him.



A ray of sunshine falls over Javert’s face. He frowns, squinting at the crack in the curtains where it got through, and turns to bury his face more completely in his pillow.



It’s a very nice pillow. Firmer than the one in the guest room, but still plush enough to be comfortable under his cheek, and it smells divine-- musk and sandalwood, sweat and sex so strong he can taste it. 



He mouths at it, unthinking, and is greeted with the soft vibration of a chuckle under his cheek. There’s a pleasant weight pressing against his shoulders, and he realizes belatedly that it’s Valjean’s arm tightening around him-- and Valjean’s pectoral acting as his pillow.



“Good morning, Javert,” Valjean murmurs. 



Perhaps Javert ought to be embarrassed by being seen in this state, but at the moment he’s too comfortable to care. 



“I’ll have to get up soon.”



Javert grunts in protest and tightens his grip around Valjean’s waist. 



“There are a few things I still need to see to at the mairie. They won’t take long.” He tucks Javert’s hair out of his face, where it (even more embarrassingly) has apparently gotten plastered to his cheek. “You can go back to sleep, if you’d like. I can wake you when I return.”



“All your indulgence is going to turn me into a libertine,” Javert grumbles, dragging himself upright with some reluctance. 



“A hedonist Javert,” Valjean muses fondly as he steps from the bed and vanishes into his closet. “What would that even look like, I wonder?” 



The image comes unbidden to Javert’s mind of Valjean arriving home to find him sprawled across the bed, utterly bare and already prepared for him. 



He swallows. “Who can say?” 



“Who indeed?” The note of mirth in his voice suggests that he has an idea of just what Javert is picturing. “I take it that you’ll be getting up, then?”



“I have to do something to keep from slipping into indolent hedonism.” 



“Your clothes are in here, if you’d like to get dressed.” 



Javert hesitates, but pads in after him, scolding himself for being ridiculous. It’s nonsense to feel more self-conscious about seeing Valjean in the process of getting dressed than entirely exposed. Valjean is already in his trousers and shirtsleeves, his braces hanging loose. 



“You keep-- my clothes in your closet,” he observes, faltering over the possessive, but forcing himself to use it all the same. 



Valjean flashes a self-effacing smile. “There’s more than enough room-- I believe this closet was sized to accommodate ladies’ dresses, and it seems rather poorly used with only my own wardrobe. I-- thought to move them into the guest bedroom--” The unspoken 

but 

hangs heavy in the air. 



That would have been presumptuous in a way Javert couldn’t possibly have tolerated before now. That would have made it 

his 

room, filled with 

his 

clothes, rather than simple spares provided by the philanthropic mayor for his use. 



“They’ll all be packed away before the end of the day,” Valjean adds quickly. “We can arrange them differently after we reach Paris-- in any way that suits you.” 



“This is an efficient use of the space,” Javert says, and very deliberately turns to the selection of clothes hanging before him. He recognizes some of these as articles Valjean has offered him in the past, all of them clustered to keep Javert’s clothes distinct from his own.



Javert can feel Valjean’s gaze on him as he picks through the clothes--

his 

clothes.



Because damn it all, if it pleases Valjean to give him things, then Javert will learn how to accept them with some semblance of grace.



Valjean doesn’t move as Javert gets dressed, except to fidget with the cuffs of his shirt-- or maybe he’s simply having trouble buttoning them one-handed. Valjean’s cuffs are far too tight, perhaps the tailor failed to account for his large wrists, though it’s more likely a deliberate choice on Valjean’s part, to prevent the fabric from slipping enough to reveal the manacle scars. 



He takes Valjean’s wrist in his hands and eases the buttons through the cuff, mostly to expedite the process, but there’s a certain domesticity in helping each other dress in the morning. Javert wouldn’t mind doing it more often.



There’s a knock at the door, and by all rights there shouldn’t be.



Valjean’s tenure as mayor may be ending, but he still holds the position for a few hours more.Anyone who has business with him should know to find him at the mairie. 



Fantine is busy packing things in the kitchen, and Marguerite is upstairs in her room, and so Javert takes it upon himself to answer the door.



On the other side is a gamin, a large envelope gripped in his hand.



“The mayor isn’t home,” he says flatly. 



“Alright,” says the gamin, a little bit nonplussed. “This ain’t for him, though. You’re ex-Inspector Javert, aren’t you?” 



Javert narrows his eyes at him. The title is grating, if not inaccurate. “I am.” 



“Then this is for you.” The gamin brandishes the envelope indicatively, but doesn’t make to surrender it. Javert’s name is written on one side in a careful, sloping handwriting. An artist’s handwriting.



With a roll of his eyes, Javert retreats back into the house and fishes a couple of sous from the sundries drawer. As soon as the delivery is paid for, the gamin is on his way and Javert is left with the envelope.



He is entirely willing to explain the expense if necessary, but he would prefer to avoid it if possible-- especially once he opens the parcel.



Inside is a note, reading simply:




An early edition, for your approval





-T




Beneath that, the seventeenth volume of 

The Mayor’s Charity

. Two illustrations take up the first pages. In the first panel, townsfolk are tearfully falling to their knees at the mayor’s feet (very pointedly, some of them) begging him to stay. In sketched letters he laments that no, they are able to care for each other now, and there are people elsewhere in need of his charity. 



Javert recognizes the second panel as the woodblock that Thayer had shown him, slightly edited. It features the mayor climbing into a carriage in the foreground while the same townspeople line the street behind him, waving their handkerchiefs in fond farewell. Already seated in the carriage are two figures: the first is a young woman in a revealing gown who must be Fantine; the other is a caricature that Javert recognizes as himself. The wolfish features are smoothed into something more human, either out of fear of Javert’s reaction, or to show that he’s been tamed at last. Gone are the wild jealousy and animal madness of the earlier installment, and in their place is a look of utter devotion.



The accompanying story-- 

The Fond Farewell

-- may be worth perusing at some later point, in private. 



But this image, he thinks, might be one Valjean would like to see.



This is the end of The Mayor's Charity, but I'm organizing some ideas for a collection of shorter bits that follow this same continuity.

Also, I wound up writing three pretty dramatically different sex scenes before i settled on the one I included here, and I'm still figuring out what to do with those.