Title: The wildest hath not such a heart as you
Work ID: 50973871
Author: sylvie_rue
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Fantine & Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert, Fantine & Javert, Javert & Sister Simplice
Additional Tags: Madeleine Era, Canon Era, Mutual Pining, Angst, Angst with a Happy Ending, Enemies to Lovers, Enemies to Friends to Lovers, Falling In Love, Identity Issues, mostly brick characterisation, except Javert has long hair, because long hair Javert is crucial to my well-being, and also great for creating moments of Romantic Tension, Long Hair, Punish Me Monsieur le Maire, the whole thing is pretty much drafted already which means I'll be updating regularly, just need to edit as I go, Idiots in Love, Jealousy, Slow Burn, Frottage, Blow Jobs, Coming In Pants, Power Play, Implied/Referenced Sex
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 9/13

Summary:
Shaken after learning he has wrongfully suspected the mayor, Javert rushes to the mairie to request his dismissal—but Madeleine isn't there. When the mayor returns two days later, it's with Cosette in tow, and Javert struggles to find an opportunity to speak with him.
Meanwhile, as Fantine recovers from her illness, Javert becomes convinced that Madeleine has fallen in love with her. If the mayor were to act on these feelings, it would be disastrous for his reputation. Javert is determined to save Madeleine from himself.
What he hasn't considered is that he may be wrong about who holds the mayor's heart—not to mention his own.

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Inspector Javert,” said Madeleine firmly, “I have heard this woman; I know what I am doing.” 

The woman in question cowered in the corner, her ragged fingernails dark with the blood she’d drawn in her frenzied attack on Bamatabois.

“And I, Monsieur le maire, do not know what I see,” said Javert in disgust.

“Then content yourself with obeying.”

Javert almost flinched to hear the mayor speak in this manner: for Madeleine to assert his authority in such a way was highly uncharacteristic. Through his outrage, Javert felt almost proud of the mayor for having at last grown a backbone.

He knew he should not push further, but there was something exhilarating about seeing the unflappable mayor with his hackles up. Javert was reminded of the incident some months earlier, when old Fauchelevent had been trapped under the cart. Madeleine, looking every inch the gentleman in his bourgeois attire, had shocked the crowd by dropping to his knees in the mud, crawling underneath the cart, and… Who would have thought it possible for one man alone to lift such a weight, especially a man of Madeleine’s age? And how well the mayor’s fine apparel had hidden his powerful shoulders and the musculature of his physique, which Javert could never afterwards forget.

Upon that day, a suspicion had taken root in Javert’s mind. It was not entirely a new suspicion: certain glimpses of Madeleine, at certain angles and in certain lighting, had triggered it before, but he had always been quick to dismiss it. After the cart, however, he was certain. He  had seen this man before—in the bagne de Toulon.

Javert had never fully trusted the mayor, that milquetoast man with his mild smile and pointless pleasantries. He was warm perhaps, and gentle, but somehow empty. He seemed to live only to serve others; to lack dreams, fears, and desires of his own. He was never overcome with emotion, be it mirth or anger. In fact, he had never so much as raised his voice—not until now, until Javert had dared oppose him on the matter of this fille publique, Fantine.

Now a fire was burning in the mayor’s dark eyes such as Javert had never seen before. The angelic disguise had been broken: Madeleine was a man after all, and a formidable one. And now he was standing very close to Javert, with his eyes alight and his jaw set. Javert felt the quickened thud of his own heartbeat, and some strange intoxication claimed him, urging him on, pressing him to contest the mayor again and again, feeding on the heat that pulsed between them as the argument intensified. 

Then Madeleine folded his arms, and said in a severe voice which no one in the town had heard from him before: “The matter to which you refer is one connected with the municipal police. According to the terms of articles nine, eleven, fifteen, and sixty-six of the code of criminal examination,  I am the judge. I order that this woman shall be set at liberty.”

“But, Monsieur le maire—” Javert tried again, his heart in his mouth. 

“I refer you to article eighty-one of the law of the 13th of December, 1799, in regard to arbitrary detention.”

“Monsieur le maire, permit me—” 

“Not another word.” 

“But—”

“Leave the room.”

The mayor’s face was so fierce that for the first time, the features of Madeleine and the features of Jean Valjean seemed to coalesce before Javert’s eyes. In more than a mere flash, Javert could swear he recognised Prisoner 24601. The grime cleaned off, the beard shaved, but that baleful gaze was the same one he had known in Toulon. 

He had his man.

Of course, he had proved it only to himself—he was not yet ready to report it to the prefect of police. But the time would come for that. 

He bowed low and strode out of the room, feeling Madeleine’s stare on his back.  

He felt a wicked pride in having provoked him, having lit that fire in his eyes. He wondered if he could do it again. After all, who knew what incriminating facts a man might let slip in the heat of anger? 

 

***

 

In his rooms that night, Javert replayed the argument over and over, until the confrontation took a different turn: he imagined Madeleine hissing “You think this whore undeserving of pity, Javert? I will show  you  what it is to be a whore. Then we will see.”

And before Javert could react, Madeleine would have him pinned against the wall, or bent over the desk—

Reaching under his nightshirt, Javert imagined the rest of the scene in a feverish rush that culminated in a gasp. 

 

***

 

A robbery had occurred in the Rue Montre-de-Champigny. Some fine ornaments and a clock had been stolen. It was after Javert had reported this incident to the mayor that he saw his next chance at a provocation.

"Savez-vous, Monsieur le maire,” he began, “I am reminded of a similar case from some years earlier. There was a theft that occurred in Digne, at the home of the Monseigneur—Myriel, I believe it was—"

Madeleine stared at him for a moment. "Yes, I am familiar with the incident of which you speak. You need not relate it to me.” His tone was indifferent, but Javert sensed a wariness in him. “Thank you, Inspector. You may go.” The mayor gave a curt nod to indicate Javert’s dismissal. 

“Ah, so you know already, Monsieur,” Javert went on in a conversational tone, making no move to leave. “A convict with a yellow passport—and that old fool welcomed him as a guest, even let him sleep under his roof.” He shook his head. “Can you imagine such a thing? He was fortunate that the bagnard only made off with his silverware, and did not cave in his skull while he slept." Javert paused. "Do you not think so...Monsieur le maire?"

Madeleine sighed. “I cannot lie to you, Inspector," he said mildly. "I would call it honourable, to shelter a man with nowhere else to go. But never mind, I can see that I will not convince you. Let us not discuss it further."

Javert was not ready to yield. "It was rightly done, then?” he challenged. “Wisely done? Let us not forget this was a dangerous man. A criminal." 

"A man, still,” Madeleine said wearily. “A man in need of a meal to eat and a bed to sleep in. A man in need of a second chance." Madeleine looked to the cross on the wall. "A man who might redeem himself, through the grace of God, if he were given that chance."

"For my part,” Javert countered, “I will believe in redemption when I bear witness to it. As I am sure you are aware, Monsieur, I served a number of years in Toulon Prison. Still I have yet to see such a thing as a changed man. Those men in the bagne—yes, you grow pale at the mere mention! Your heart knows, perhaps, what your mind will not admit; your face shows the fear you feel inside. Those men are like caged dogs. Those men do not change."

"Inspector Javert,” Madeleine sighed, “fortunate men such as you and I cannot know what it is to suffer as those men do—the endless weight of the ball and chain, the bite of the lash, the heat of the sun, day after day of toil with no respite. No, you cannot know what the bagne does to a man," the mayor said in a low voice, "and you cannot rightly judge what you do not understand. Yet even a man as wretched as that, shown mercy and a little kindness—that man could change. Though he laboured twenty years in the galleys, still he could change. Given the chance.” This last phrase was half-muttered, as if Madeleine were saying it more to himself than to his interlocutor. Then he repeated, under his breath, “He must be given the chance.”

"Twenty years,” Javert mused, “In fact, that is very near to the truth." He watched Madeleine carefully. "The convict who robbed the bishop of Digne served nineteen years in Toulon. His name was Jean Valjean."

Madeleine swallowed, his throat bobbing beneath his cravat.

Javert pressed on. "You say a man like Jean Valjean can change. But Jean Valjean did not change."

"You cannot know that." The mayor’s voice was solemn and sad.

Javert scoffed. "But you are being absurd, Monsieur. Valjean went to the bagne for theft. He left the bagne after nineteen years, and it took him all of four days to again commit a theft—and against the very man who gave him shelter. A man of the cloth no less! Of course, the good bishop claimed the silverware was a gift—but that was only pretence. Any fool could see that."

Madeleine was watching him steadily, but Javert could not read his expression. 

"What became of him after?" the mayor asked at last.

Javert made an impatient gesture. "Why, he continued to do whatever it is a bishop does, minus a set of silverware. I suppose he ate with his hands,” he said drily.

"What became," Madeleine said with a hint of annoyance, "of Jean Valjean?"

"He disappeared, Monsieur, and has been at large these eight years,” Javert replied. “Beyond that,"—he caught the mayor's eye—"I know only as much as you do."

"Then you cannot know what transformation may have taken place in his soul.” Madeleine’s voice was quiet but forceful.

"It is a rather feeble argument, Monsieur," Javert said drily. "In fact, I can give you my word, as an expert in the domain of criminality, that I have never seen such a transformation come to pass and never—"

Madeleine interrupted him. "Do you think you are God, Javert?” His voice had a hard edge to it. “That you may look inside another man's soul and see what lies therein?"

Javert bit back a smile. He was winning the prize he had sought: Madeleine was close to losing his temper.  

"You cannot,” Madeleine went on, in a heated tone. “Only God can do that. You are not God. Nor are you God's gift to law and justice, as you would have me believe. You—" he stopped, breathing raggedly.

A flush had replaced the pallor on the mayor's cheeks and—yes, his eyes burned like two hot coals. 

"Nor are you the saint, Monsieur, that you believe yourself to be," Javert retorted.

The mayor looked taken aback.

Javert’s heart was beating hard. Madeleine seemed about to snap.

Then Madeleine broke—and to Javert’s shock, he began to laugh. The fire in his eyes remained lit, but it had gone from an angry blaze to a merry hearth-fire.

"We have found common ground at last, Inspector Javert," Madeleine chuckled. "No, you have that right. I am no saint." He wiped his eyes, still laughing. "How you amuse me."

"Perhaps not so much as I vex you, Monsieur."

The mayor, whose face still shone with amusement, fell to contemplating Javert, his eyes following Javert’s whiskers down the line of his jaw, trailing over his lapels, coat buttons, cuffs, his long slender hand resting on the leaden head of his cane—in short, Madeleine looked him over from hat to boot and back up again. Javert, who was accustomed to turning a searching gaze on others, found he did not much enjoy this reversal. He felt exposed. He lifted his chin and tried to ignore the heat in his face.

"You vex me and you amuse me, Inspector," the mayor conceded at last. "It is a novel combination." He grew serious once more. "But come! Let us be honest with one another. I know you have never liked me. I know you like me even less now, after our argument over Fantine. I understand: it was a blow to your dignity, and in front of your men no less. Although I make no apology for interceding on Fantine’s behalf, I am sorry that I humiliated you. I had no wish to do so."

Javert folded his arms. “A mayor does not apologise to a police spy.”

"Does he not?" Madeleine smiled. "What if he wishes to make amends?"

Javert did not know what to say. He opened his mouth, and then closed it. How to reckon with this impossible man? He had never known the like.

Madeleine sat with his chin perched contemplatively in his hand, watching Javert’s face as several shades of confusion and frustration flickered across it. After a long pause, he said, "Did you prefer me as I was then?"

"What?" Javert managed, remembering at the last moment to add, "Monsieur?"

"Did you prefer me as I was then?” Madeleine repeated. “When I spoke to you severely?"

"It was an appropriate tone to take with a subordinate who had opposed you, Monsieur; though, as I was well within my rights to do so, it was perhaps unduly severe,” Javert said sulkily.

"It is not a tone I am accustomed to taking. I am afraid I lost my temper."

Javert scoffed, then caught himself, straightening up and regaining his serious expression.

Madeleine raised his eyebrows. “Go on. You have something to say?”

“Only that I do not think you did,” Javert muttered.

“Whatever do you mean, Inspector?”

"A man with your strength, Monsieur—if you had truly lost your temper..." Javert's heart was pounding. What was he doing? "But I am being insolent again. Forgive me, Monsieur le maire." 

He bowed to the floor, turned on his heel, and walked out, his heart hammering.

 

***

 

Weeks passed.

While on duty, Javert devoted himself to studying the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, observing him carefully at every chance he got. 

Meanwhile, in his off-duty hours, Javert was steadily becoming an expert on the dossier of Prisoner 24601. He had been making enquiries, writing letters to Toulon Prison, taking copious notes. 

He compared his notes on Prisoner 24601 to the notes he had made of Madeleine’s idiosyncrasies: the slight drag to the right foot, the inquiries the mayor had caused to be made at Faverolles, the immense strength he had displayed in lifting the cart, and so on.

None of these details meant a thing on their own; they were disparate as stars, but Inspector Javert began to link them together into a constellation, and the constellation bore the name of Jean Valjean.

 

***

 

The next time Madeleine started saying something irritating during one of their meetings—urging leniency for a youth who had been caught defacing property—Javert was quick to fire back, uttering a remark as impertinent as he dared, anticipating the flush that would spread over the mayor's face, the heat in his eyes, the tension in his powerful muscles. If Javert could only push him far enough, who knew what might happen?

But Madeleine only blinked, studying him coolly. 

"One could almost believe, Inspector," Madeleine said drily, "that you intend to goad me."

Javert straightened. "I intend, sir, to do my duty in service of justice."

"I think you intend to make me angry,” Madeleine said in a low voice. “I think you wish to catch me out. To knock me from the high horse you imagine I sit astride. Do I have the right of it?"

Javert was speechless. The mayor had very nearly guessed his hidden motive, but what truly surprised him was the realisation that this guess was yet missing some substantial element, something that Javert had hidden from his own conscience and was now forced to confront. Why was it that he goaded the mayor in this way? He saw again, in his memory, Madeleine’s eyes aflame. A thought apprehended him, the words jumping into his head unbidden:  I wanted to see you burn. 

“I wanted—” he swallowed. “I merely wanted to—” 

 For me, added the treacherous inner voice. 


 I wanted to see you burn for me. 


He shook his head to clear it.

“Forgive me,” he said weakly. “I will not trouble you further, Monsieur.” He slunk out. 

 

***

 

At last, Javert had gathered all he needed. He had no absolute proof, that was true, but he had his constellation of similarities—too many to be coincidence—and he believed it to be enough. He could not wait any longer: Madeleine was beginning to grow suspicious of him. And besides that, the mayor’s presence was making him increasingly uneasy. Whenever Madeleine’s eyes were on him, Javert felt faint. He was impatient to have him gone. 

Javert wrote his letter to the prefect of police, signed it with a flourish, and sent it off first thing in the morning.

He walked with a spring in his step that day, greeted the mayor cheerfully, and even asked after Fantine's health.

He was thrown slightly off-balance by how touched the mayor seemed to be by this enquiry, but no matter. Valjean was nothing more than a big fish he had caught, and was about to reel in. Naturally, he felt no more guilt than a fisherman would, even if the fish did have unusually soft and expressive eyes.

In the days and weeks to come, spring descended on the town of Montreuil-sur-Mer, sweetening the air with the scent of blossoms and the sound of birdsong. Javert's good mood had not abated. He was about to make the arrest of his career—nothing could spoil it for him. He was more patient with the mayor, more patient with everyone. This abrupt change in Javert’s demeanour was whispered about among the members of Montreuil-sur-Mer’s police force. His men joked about it, suggesting lewd reasons for the shift, whispering the names of grisettes.

The mayor, meanwhile, had apparently taken Javert's thoughtless question about Fantine for genuine concern, a change of heart perhaps, and had taken to providing updates on her condition. Before long, Madeleine began as well to tell him, in interludes, some of Fantine's history. Javert said little in response and betrayed no emotion, but he listened, and this seemed to please the mayor enough. 

On one occasion, Madeleine asked Javert to stop by the hospital to take a statement: a patient had attacked one of the nurses. 

Upon entering the ward, Javert could not help but notice Fantine, asleep in her sick-bed, and he had to admit she did not much resemble the gap-toothed wildcat he had apprehended that day several weeks ago. Her mouth was closed, her face serene, and he saw that she was young, and the lines on her face were not lines of age but of suffering—and he knew now exactly how and what she had suffered, for the mayor had described it to him.

Still, the law was the law. 

Javert turned to the nun who had shown him in. "Is this the patient who attacked you, Sister?" he asked, with a gesture toward the sleeping Fantine. She did, after all, have a history of violence.

"Fantine?" the nun exclaimed, shocked. "Oh, no—never Fantine! Fantine est notre ange.” She gazed tenderly at the sleeping woman and went to adjust her blankets. “All she wants, Monsieur l’inspecteur, is to see her little daughter,” the nun confided as she smoothed Fantine’s covers and felt her forehead. “It is all she can speak of. I pray it will come to pass. God willing…" She crossed herself.

Javert finished his work at the hospital with a distracted air.

As for Madeleine—no, Valjean—his concern for Fantine was clearly just another aspect of his cunning disguise. Javert would not be fooled by those soft eyes.

All of the dialogue in the first scene is straight from The Brick Vol. I, Book V, Chapter XIII, as is this descriptor: "Then Madeleine folded his arms, and said in a severe voice which no one in the town had heard from him before:".

I sometimes use very small snippets of French for flavour, and while it's really not necessary to understand what they mean in order to follow the story, here are the translations for the ones used in this chapter:

- Savez-vous = Do you know- Fantine est notre ange = Fantine is our angel

Javert receives the reply to his letter and goes straight to the mairie to request his dismissal, but Madeleine is not there. The mayor returns two days later, with Cosette in tow. When Javert goes to see him, again to request his dismissal, he instead finds himself left alone with the little girl while Madeleine goes to complete some mayoral errands.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


At last, Javert received the reply to his letter.

He tore the envelope open with impatience, but as he read its contents, the eagerness in face changed to horror.

Jean Valjean—the real Jean Valjean—had been arrested, and was being held in Arras. This whole time, all these weeks Javert had spent savouring his victory, he had been wrong.

Madeleine, then, was exactly what he seemed to be: an ordinary man with uncommon strength and a soft heart. And Javert had been rude to him, suspicious of him, had denounced him as an ex-convict. He could not conceive of a more egregious error, a more unforgivable show of disrespect towards a superior. The more he thought about it, the further Javert fell in his own esteem, and the higher Madeleine rose. He had half a mind to fling himself at Madeleine’s feet and beg for some of that famous mercy, but of course, he could never lower himself in that way. He had his dignity, and he had his principles. He had failed in his duty, so he knew what he must do.

As he would have to leave for Arras that very evening to identify the real Valjean in court, he must not waste any time. He put on his coat and went at once to see the mayor.

But when he arrived at the mairie, Madeleine’s secretary informed him that the mayor was not in.

"My apologies, Monsieur l'inspecteur," the young man said. "He left this morning for Montfermeil. He may be gone a few days."

Javert had no choice but to go on with his duties until the evening. After an early supper, he got in the diligence and went to Arras. 

The trial was short, as he had expected.

The years had not been kind to Jean Valjean: he had grown soft in the head, and lost that quietly commanding presence Javert recalled from all those years ago. The light in his eyes had been snuffed out by the hard years in the bagne and on the run. Still, it was undeniable, although the defendant insisted on playing dumb. Brevet, Cochepaille, and Chenildieu all recognised him. Yes, this was Jean Valjean: reduced to this sad old man. Javert could not think why this should so disturb him, but it did. He had imagined Valjean to be a worthy opponent, against whom he was playing a sort of drawn-out game of strategy, a chess match of justice—only for him now to realise it had all been in his head. Valjean had not been thinking of him, had not been trying all this time to outmanoeuvre Javert, his formidable opponent. Valjean did not seem to remember him at all. He could not help but be disappointed. 

He returned home despondent. 

 

***

 

The mayor had sent word ahead regarding the date of his return, so after the two days had elapsed, Javert made his way to the mairie at the usual time for his report. 

The mayor had only just arrived—and he was not alone.

Holding tightly to his hand was a very small girl, who was clutching a fine doll in the crook of her arm. The doll was almost as big as she was. Madeleine was speaking softly to the girl, sitting her down in a chair beside his desk, detaching her grip from his hand with the utmost gentleness. 

Javert swallowed and turned his gaze to the floor. Such gentleness could only be innate: one had only to look at Madeleine to see he was not putting on an act. For all the time Javert had spent studying Madeleine, had he ever truly seen him?

He was so preoccupied it didn’t even occur to him to wonder who the child was, or why she was there.

Madeleine looked up and saw him.

“Inspector,” he smiled, with that accursed warmth in his eyes. “I have just come from Montfermeil. As you can see, we have a guest with us today.” He looked at the little girl, who hugged her doll closer. “Forgive me—two guests. Inspector Javert,”—he gestured to the girl—“this is Cosette.” 

Cosette: Javert recalled the name. Fantine’s daughter, then. 

Madeleine then motioned to the enormous doll. “And this is Catherine. Cosette, Catherine, this is Police Inspector Javert.”

Javert had no idea how to greet a child, still less how to greet a doll. He nodded stiffly in Cosette’s direction. She stared at him with large mournful eyes. 

“After you have given your report, Inspector, I will bring Cosette to see her mother in hospital,” Madeleine explained, “and the nuns will look after her for the rest of the afternoon. I hadn’t time to drop her there first, you see, and—”

The door opened: Madeleine’s secretary looked in. "Sir, M. Vaugeois and the others are here. You are wanted in the main hall to review and sign the documents."

"Ah," said Madeleine, dismayed. "But at this hour, I usually meet with the Chief Inspector in my office."

"I'm sorry, Monsieur," said the secretary, "but M. Vaugeois cannot wait, and I thought—" he gestured at Javert, "I thought the Inspector might be so good as to..."

Madeleine looked at Javert, looked at Cosette, then seemed to come to a decision.

"Very well. Tell them I will be there in a moment. Thank you."

The secretary left the room.

Madeleine turned to the girl. "I will return very soon, Cosette," he said gently. "Until I do, you will remain here,"—he looked at Javert—"with Police Inspector Javert."

Javert gave a small start, but quickly smoothed his expression back to careful neutrality. If this was the service Madeleine required from him right now, surely it was the least he could do.

Cosette looked up—all the way up—at the tall, stern man in the dark coat.

Seeing that some reassurance might be in order, Madeleine knelt before her and said, "You must not be afraid, Cosette. Inspector Javert is one of the most honest and dutiful men I know, and his duty is to protect Montreuil-sur-Mer. You and Catherine will be very safe with him." He squeezed her hand, then straightened up.

To Javert he said hurriedly, "I apologise for delaying our meeting, Inspector. I assure you I will not be long. À peine trente minutes.  Wait for me here." He leaned in and added in a low voice, “I need not tell you, I am sure, to treat this child with nothing less than the utmost dignity and kindness.” He fixed Javert with a grave look that nonetheless held a measure of trust in it, and he swept out of the room.

Left alone, the little girl and the police officer eyed each other warily. After several long moments of silence, Javert turned his back to contemplate the mayor’s bookcase. As he did so, the girl made a small noise of surprise and delight.

Javert waited, then, hearing nothing further, turned around to face her once more. “Well? What is it?” 

She looked shyly down at her lap. “Your hair, Monsieur,” she murmured. “It is lovely.”

She was gazing wistfully at his long silvered hair, which he wore tied back with a ribbon. Her own hair, Javert realised, was thin and dull. What was more—he looked at her more carefully—she was skin and bones, her hands rough and red with chilblains. She had been ill-treated. He felt a tug of pity in his gut. She was a child, and innocent. She could not deserve this. 

“It is lovely like my doll’s hair,” Cosette went on. “See, I have done it in a braid.” She held up the doll for him to see. She had braided its hair, and lacking a ribbon to tie it with, she was holding the end of the braid with one hand to keep it from unravelling. 

“I could do your hair in a braid, Monsieur,” she said very quietly.

For an instant, a slight smile softened Javert’s serious face, before his habitual grave expression returned.

“It would not look half so well, I fear,” he said. “You can see I have not a doll’s pretty features.”

It was true there was nothing remotely doll-like in the policeman’s face, which was a severe one—all hard angles and piercing eyes—but there was something she liked about it, all the same.

She did not have the words to tell him so, nor did she have the courage. She fell silent once more, looking down at the doll in her lap.

Javert watched her for a moment, then turned back to the bookcase.

Cosette sensed his sharp gaze leaving her, and dared to look up once more. She studied the man’s back. He was tall and stood very straight, so that he seemed even taller. He had a dignity that she admired, and Père Madeleine had spoken highly of him, had called him a protector. She felt safe in his care, although he was stern where Madeleine was kind.

Javert, still haunted by the unforgivable error he had committed in mistaking Madeleine for Prisoner 24601, was feeling wretched. Growing tired of the bookcase, he paced back across the room and sat down heavily in the chair beside Cosette, letting out a long sigh.

The little girl watched him anxiously.

She continued to play quietly with her doll, stealing glances at Javert every now and then. He was sitting up straight, with his hands in his lap, staring at the wall opposite. His eyes were troubled.

Madeleine returned after half an hour.

"Were you good, Cosette? No, you needn't answer. I know you were." He patted her on the head, then sat down at his desk and rearranged some papers. "You must be patient for just a few more minutes," he went on, looking over at her, "while Inspector Javert tells me what has transpired in the town during my absence."

Cosette nodded and turned her attention back to Catherine.

Recognising his cue, Javert stood and went over to the desk.

"Best keep it short today," Madeleine said to Javert under his breath. "If you could summarise any pressing matters..."

As badly as he wanted to explain his mistake and ask to be dismissed from his post, Javert could see it was not the moment, so he simply provided an abridged report as requested, bowed, and left the room.

As he started down the hallway, he heard Cosette's small voice say in a tone of worried confession, “Père Madeleine, I think that man is sad."

 

***

 

The next day, the mayor came in looking harried, again with Cosette clinging to his hand.

“Inspector Javert,” he said in surprise, seeing Javert waiting outside his office. “I did not think we were to meet today.”

“No, Monsieur, but I had something to discuss…” he trailed off, looking down at Cosette. 

"Madame Rochette from next door was to look after her," Madeleine explained in a rush, "but she has taken ill. I shall try Madame Proulx, but first I must stop in at the law courts.” He ran a hand through his hair. “I don’t suppose—being that you are here—would you be so good as to…” he looked sheepish, but pressed on. “If you could stay with her once more—I will only be an hour—and she has rather taken a liking to you—"

So Javert again found himself alone with the child. 

Cosette busied herself with her doll. The first few minutes passed in silence. It was not an uncomfortable silence; in fact, as the time wore on, it became closer to companionable: they had grown used to each other.

Again, Cosette was the first to speak.

“I think it is the best braid I have ever done,” she announced proudly, admiring her work as she held the end of the doll’s plaited hair tightly in her left hand. With the other hand, she produced from somewhere a small bit of string, a spare end that must have fallen from a sleeve or a hem. 

“Monsieur, would you tie the end for me?”

He took the bit of string from her, but it was so short and wispy that nothing much could be done with it. He shook his head. “It won’t do,” he said curtly.

She was crestfallen. “Oh,” she sighed. 

Her eyes strayed to the black ribbon that secured Javert’s own hair. If only she had a bit of ribbon like that! She was sure she could never do such a nice braid as this one ever again, and how pretty a ribbon would be for Catherine.

Although Cosette communicated nothing of these thoughts, she was a child, and guileless, and they showed as clearly on her face as if she had stated them plainly. 

As Javert followed her wistful gaze, his hand reached up on reflex to touch the ribbon in his hair. He looked again upon the child's forlorn expression, and somehow his fingers found the ends of the ribbon and tugged it free. He had not a thought in his head; had acted, somehow, without consciousness of what he did. The look in Cosette’s eyes had awakened a sympathy within him that he had not known he possessed, and that even now he did not understand. It was not the sympathy of the greying police officer he now was, but the sympathy of the little boy who still lived within him, an orphan who had once gazed upon the smallest, most meagre of luxuries with just such a look in his own eyes, un songe vain .  

He came to his senses as his silver-streaked hair tumbled down over his shoulders. Cosette was watching him, awestruck. The ribbon was in his hand. 

What else could he do now? He held out his other hand for the doll. 

“Well?” he said gruffly. “Give it here.”

Tearing her admiring gaze away from Javert’s loose hair, Cosette handed Catherine over. Deftly, Javert tied off the braid with his own ribbon, and pushed the doll back towards Cosette without ceremony.

Cosette held the doll out in front of her, speechless with joy. The perfect braid, and tied with a ribbon!

Javert was feeling foolish. Why had he given the girl his ribbon? Surely the neatness of his own hair, which pertained directly to his respectability and was therefore a facet of his duty, should take precedence over the hair of a child’s toy! What madness had possessed him?

And yet, his duty could hardly be of much importance anymore. He had disgraced himself; he was no longer a police inspector, he was only acting as one until his dismissal could be made official. Anyway, no one would see him like this except the child. He would make his hair neat again—he was sure to have another bit of ribbon on hand. He always did.

He felt around in his pockets.

The doorknob rattled, and he nearly jumped out of his skin. Then the office door swung open: the mayor had returned twenty minutes early. 

Javert sprang to his feet. Madeleine flinched at the sight of him: wild-eyed and wild-haired.  

“Inspector,” he said in a strange voice, his eyes darting back and forth between Javert’s face and the loose hair that fell over his shoulders. “Are you—is everything alright?” He was staring. Javert could not quite read his expression: there was confusion and alarm, certainly, but something else, too. Then he noticed the mayor was blushing. Ah, of course: shame, then—shame on Javert’s behalf. What else could it be? 

“I am terribly sorry, Monsieur,” he managed. “An inexcusable lack of propriety. I will see myself out.” 

Flustered and humiliated, the only thing Javert could think of was to get away, so that Madeleine could no longer look upon him in this state of dishevelment. He snatched his hat and cane and fled with as much dignity as remained to him. It was only when he was halfway down the hall that he remembered he had still not admitted his mistake and asked to be dismissed.

I sometimes use very small snippets of French for flavour. While it's really not necessary to understand what they mean, I realised some people might like to know nonetheless, so here's the list for this chapter:

- À peine trente minutes = Barely thirty minutes- un songe vain = a vain dream

Javert requests to be dismissed from his post, but will the mayor comply?


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


When Javert entered the mayor’s office the following morning, Madeleine greeted him warmly. Javert couldn’t think why this should be the case, given the circumstances of his hasty departure the previous day, and decided he must be imagining it.

This time, at last, the mayor was unaccompanied by the child.

“Inspector Javert,” Madeleine said, “I must thank you again for looking after Cosette—and she sends her own heartfelt thanks for your gift.” 

Javert bowed in response, though he had no idea what gift the mayor was referring to. Nor was he about to waste any time enquiring—the mayor looked as if he had more to say, so Javert rushed to speak before he could miss his chance again.

“Monsieur le maire,” he said rapidly, squaring his shoulders, “I must inform you that an inferior agent of the authorities has failed in respect, and in the gravest manner, towards a magistrate.” He stopped to draw breath. “I have come to bring the fact to your knowledge, as it is my duty to do.” His stance was rigid; he was bracing, already, for the blow he knew must be soon to come. 

“Who is the agent?” asked Madeleine, looking intrigued.

Javert looked down. “I,” he said.

“You?” Madeleine raised his eyebrows.

“I,” Javert repeated. 

“And who is the magistrate who has reason to complain of the agent?”

“You, Monsieur le maire.” Javert went on, with a severe air and his eyes still cast down. “Monsieur le maire, I have come to request you to instigate the authorities to dismiss me.”

Madeleine opened his mouth in amazement.

Javert rushed on, not allowing Madeleine a word in edgewise. “You will say that I might have handed in my resignation, but that does not suffice. Handing in one’s resignation is honourable. I have failed in my duty; I ought to be punished. I must be turned out.”

“Come, now! Why?” exclaimed Madeleine at last. “What nonsense is this? What is the meaning of this? You say you have failed in respect towards me, but I fail to see how it is so. Why, the only—”

He stopped, stared at Javert as if something had just occurred to him, then burst out laughing. 

Javert could only return his stare. How could Madeleine laugh, when the matter at hand involved a show of grave disrespect against his own person? What could possibly be funny about that? 

Javert’s consternation must have shown on his face, because Madeleine made an effort to collect himself, with only middling success. 

“This is about yesterday?” said the mayor, who was battling a smile, and losing. 

Javert blinked, unable for a moment to follow the mayor’s train of thought. Then the memory flashed back through his head, and he saw again the stunned expression on Madeleine’s face when he had walked in on Javert with his hair untied. Of course. How could he have forgotten? That had been a serious mistake on his part. It was only because it was so overshadowed by his greater failure that it had slipped his mind. 

He bowed his head, contrite. “That was another instance where I failed in my duty, Monsieur, and it grieves me to recall it,” he said.

“It was no failing,” Madeleine said firmly. “You were kind to a small child who has known little enough in the way of kindnesses. You gave a gift, though it was to your own inconvenience—Inspector, that was exceedingly well done. I am delighted with your performance. You will not speak to me of this resignation nonsense again.”

(That, at least, explained what Madeleine had meant earlier about the gift: the ribbon. Javert supposed it might technically qualify as a gift, though he had not thought of it that way, and did not really think it counted.)

“But Monsieur, I have not yet come to the point,” Javert protested. 

“I will not hear of it.”

“But, Monsieur le maire—” 

“Must I become severe again?”

“Monsieur le maire, permit me—”

“Not another word,” Madeleine said in a severe tone.

“But—”

“Leave the room.” Madeleine had taken care to speak harshly, in as convincing a manner as he could, but the smile in his eyes gave him away.

Still there was no recourse left for Javert but to obey. 

 

***

 

“Monsieur, I must again ask you to see that I am dismissed,” began Javert at the next opportunity.

Madeleine looked up from his papers. “Good afternoon, Inspector,” he smiled, laying down his pen. “We have much business to attend to. Listen well: there is Madame Buseaupied, whose complaint you must hear against the carter. Then you must go to the Rue Guibourg and the Rue de Garraud-Blanc to verify the infractions which have been reported to me by la veuve Doris and Madame Renée le Bossé, and you will prepare documents. Have you any questions?”

Javert gritted his teeth. “Monsieur, forgive me, but again I must—”

“You must be going, yes, of course!” Madeleine finished for him. “You have much to do. I shall not keep you any longer.”

He dismissed Javert with a wave of his hand, picked up his pen, and resumed writing.

“Monsieur le maire,” said Javert. 

The mayor ignored him, continuing his scrawl. 

Javert took a deep breath. “Monsieur,” he said again. “If you please.”

Madeleine gave no indication that he had heard. He wrote out another line in his careful handwriting, finished his sentence with a decisive stab of the nib, then laid the pen down forcefully. At last, he raised his head, and fixed Javert with a dark look that sent a frisson up the policeman’s spine. 

“Javert, when I ask you to do something,” the mayor said in a low, dangerous tone, “I expect you to do it at once.”

Javert swallowed, but still hovered before the desk, completely torn between obedience and honour.

Madeleine’s eyes flashed. “Do you defy me?” 

His voice was a warning growl that quickened Javert’s heartbeat and shattered his resolve in an instant.

He dipped into a hasty bow. “Forgive me, sir,” he stammered, backing away. “I would not dare.”

With one foot out the door, he looked back over his shoulder. Madeleine was still watching him, his gaze inscrutable. 

“You annoy me,” Javert muttered, then he added in a louder tone, “I shall continue to serve until I am superseded.” 

He walked out, but left the door ajar, and peered back through the gap in time to see the severity drop entirely from Madeleine’s face. It was like watching a lowering stormcloud evaporate into thin air, leaving behind a sky of limpid blue. The mayor smiled to himself, shook his head, and sat there for a moment in seeming reverie before picking up his pen once more.

Javert marched away down the hall at a rapid clip, venting his frustration through his boot-heels. He knew very well Madeleine had no plans to see that he was dismissed, or to find a replacement for him. Madeleine seemed to find the whole situation funny—but that was only because he did not yet know what Javert had done.

 Let us see if he still finds me amusing when he learns the truth, thought Javert with a bitter satisfaction.

 

***

 

The following day, Javert strode into the mayor's office and handed him an envelope. 

"A letter arrived for you at the police station, Monsieur,” he declared. “Some sort of mix-up, I suppose, but you can see it is addressed to you; I have brought it for you."

“I see. Thank you, Inspector,” Madeleine took it, glanced at it, and opened it at once. 

Javert watched his face change as he read the letter, shifting from disinterest to exasperation to alarm. 

It was not a long letter, nor a particularly eloquent one: it was simple and to the point. It explained how Javert had mistaken Madeleine for the ex-convict Jean Valjean, that he had denounced him to the prefecture, and that he now realised he had been wrong and wished to be dismissed from his post. Javert had made no mention of the real Jean Valjean’s arrest and trial; he had not wanted to upset the mayor any further with such details, or to distract from the main point. The point was his horrible mistake and the punishment he deserved, and the focus ought to remain on that. 

When the mayor’s eyes finished moving down the page, they met Javert’s, and Javert spoke.

"Forgive me, Monsieur, for having misled you, but as you would not hear me, I was forced to appeal to you in writing, and to employ a—slight deception—to ensure you would read my explanation. It is essential that you understand why I must be dismissed.” He smiled faintly. “Well—you see how it is now. Why I am no longer fit to serve you, Monsieur le maire."

Madeleine looked shaken. His face was pale. The letter trembled in his hand. It pained Javert to see him so upset. 

Javert went on, wildly: "I hardly know what came over me. I had had an idea for a long time; a resemblance; inquiries you had caused to be made at Faverolles; your strength and the adventure with old Fauchelevent; your leg, which you drag a little—I hardly know what all—absurdities! But, at all events, I took you for him.” 

The mayor glanced back at the letter. "Jean Valjean," he said.

"Yes."

"And you wrote to the prefecture to say..."

"Yes."

“And what reply did you receive?” 

“That I was mad.” 

“Well?” 

Javert recalled the thought he had had while watching Madeleine with Cosette—that for all he had studied Madeleine, he had somehow failed to see him. 

"I must have been," he burst out, "for now I cannot understand how I could have thought—" he swallowed. "I have watched you—I have come to know you. I have seen you with the child." He was babbling. He composed himself, and concluded, "I have nothing more to say for myself. You know now what I have done. There is no excusing it. I must be punished."

Madeleine took a steadying breath. He studied Javert’s face for a long moment, then said, "You no longer believe me to be...?"

"Jean Valjean.” Javert recalled the image of that old, faded man in the courtroom. Aside from some similarities in build and facial features, no one could have been less like Madeleine. “No. No."

Madeleine raised his eyebrows. "You are sure?"

"I would swear to it," said Javert with conviction.

"Very well." The mayor took a deep breath, folded the letter, and laid it down on the desk. "Then I can see no reason why you should not retain your post."

Javert recoiled. "Retain? My...? Mais Monsieur—" He snatched the letter from the mayor's desk. "Read, again, if you please, exactly what I—"

The mayor put up his hand, interrupting, “Javert, you are a man of honour, and I esteem you. You exaggerate your fault. Moreover,”—he raised his voice to prevent Javert from cutting in— “moreover, this is an offence which concerns me. I wish you to retain your post.” 

“Monsieur le maire, I cannot grant you that,” Javert insisted, his tone heated. "I have denounced you as a convict, you, a respectable man, a mayor, a magistrate! That is serious, very serious.” He had begun to pace the room. “I have insulted authority in your person, I, an agent of the authorities! If one of my subordinates had done what I have done, I should have declared him unworthy of the service, and have expelled him.” Javert stopped in front of the fireplace, which was not lit, and stared into the ashes as if mesmerised. “Monsieur le maire, I do not desire that you should treat me kindly,” he went on, more slowly. “Good God! it is very easy to be kind; the difficulty lies in being just.” He looked back at the mayor. “Come! if you had been what I thought you, I should not have been kind to you. You would have seen! Monsieur le maire, I must treat myself as I would treat any other man.” He had roamed back over to the desk, and stood again in front of the mayor, his face lit with the glow of anguish. “The good of the service demands an example. I simply require the discharge of Inspector Javert.”

All this was uttered in a proud, humble, despairing, yet convinced tone. Madeleine had watched and listened without moving. When at last he spoke, all he said was, “We shall see.”

And he offered Javert his hand. 

Javert recoiled. “A mayor does not—”

“A mayor does as he pleases,” Madeleine cut in, “so long as it harms no one. It pleases him, and it harms no one, to shake the hand of his chief of police.”

Javert stared at Madeleine’s hand, unable to move. 

Madeleine stood up and gently coaxed Javert’s hand into his, giving it a firm shake.

 

***

 

Needless to say, Javert retained his post. He did not feel justice had been done in the matter, but nor could he contest his superior any further than he had already done. He gave up, and devoted himself once more to his duty, though it seemed far less straightforward than it had before. He was of half a mind to resent the mayor for foolishly failing to dismiss him, and of half a mind to serve him even more faithfully than before to atone for the wrong he had done him, for which he had not even been punished. It was a queer combination of sentiments. Madeleine confounded him as much as ever.

It was perhaps a fortnight later that Madeleine saw fit to confound him further. 

Early one evening, as the light was starting to fade from the sky, Javert returned home after finishing work to find Madeleine and Cosette waiting by his door. He had not known Madeleine knew where he lived, but he supposed it would be easy enough for a mayor to obtain such information. 

“Inspector Javert,” Madeleine greeted him. “Cosette has something she would like to give you." He looked down at the little girl, who was clinging to his hand. "N'est-ce pas, ma chère?"

She smiled shyly and brought out a small paper package from behind her back.

Javert looked at the package in utter confusion, then looked to Madeleine.

“Take it, Javert,” said the mayor, in a tone that could best be described as warm exasperation. 

Nonplussed, hesitant, Javert nevertheless crouched down to accept the package, and unwrapped it gingerly. Inside was a length of fine ribbon in deep blue velvet.

"It is for your hair, Monsieur l'inspecteur," Cosette explained unnecessarily, with an excited little hop. “We saw it at the milliner’s and Père Madeleine wanted—”

“Cosette picked it out for you,” Madeleine said hastily. 

Javert could not remember the last time someone had given him a gift. He was not actually sure it had ever happened before. 

He looked down at Cosette: she was beaming. He looked up at Madeleine: his face, too, was aglow. He found himself entirely without words. He did not even say  thank you ; it was completely beyond him.

"Please, Monsieur," Cosette implored Javert, saving him from his confusion, "may I tie it for you?"

Javert hesitated, looking to Madeleine again for guidance. He was out of his depth.

The mayor was smiling. “Go on,” he encouraged.

"Very well," Javert conceded stiffly, kneeling down so she could reach.

Cosette scampered around behind him and untied the shabbier ribbon that had been holding his hair in place. He felt its soft weight fall over his shoulders. Although the mayor had permitted this, he still could not help but feel it was a little indecent. He felt his face grow hot when his eyes met Madeleine's for a moment. Madeleine folded his arms and looked away.

Javert felt Cosette gather his hair carefully and fumble with the ribbon. She had practised many times on her doll Catherine, but was finding it to be a different experience altogether on a living human. She had only just learned to tie her shoes. Nevertheless, she persevered and at last managed a loose and rather lopsided bow.

"Done," she announced, and Javert got to his feet. But Cosette was not altogether happy with her handiwork. She was looking up at the bow in dismay. It had not seemed quite so crooked a moment ago…

"Please Père Madeleine, can you come fix it?" she implored. 

"As you wish, ma chère." 

The mayor stepped behind Javert. "You have done a fine job, Cosette,” he reassured her. “Only a little more practice and you will have the knack of it."

Then he undid the lopsided bow, and again Javert felt his hair being gathered; this time, by much larger, rougher hands, whose calloused fingertips brushed against his skin and sent a shiver through him. 

Though the hands were rough, their touch was gentle and precise, sweeping back over his ears and up from his nape to catch any stray hairs, and taking obvious care not to tug as the ribbon was tied once more.

"Voilà," Madeleine murmured, and Javert felt the other man’s breath heat the back of his neck. His skin tingled.

He dared a glance back over his shoulder, and found Madeleine's face so close that their noses almost touched.

Their eyes met for a second, and they both looked rapidly away.

"Je vous remercie, Monsieur le maire," Javert said hoarsely, remembering his manners at last.

"De rien," replied Madeleine.

Then they both looked down at Cosette, who was watching them curiously.

Javert touched the ribbon in his hair as if he could not quite believe it was real.

Hope you enjoyed Madeleine weaponising Javert’s pathological obsession with obeying authority in order to keep him in a job.

 

Here's the breakdown of borrowed dialogue from the Brick:

First scene- All the dialogue from “I must inform you that an inferior agent of the authorities…” to “Come now! Why? What nonsense is this? What is the meaning of this?” is Hugo/Hapgood (I.VI.II)- All the dialogue from “Monsieur le maire, permit me—” to the end of the scene is Hugo/Hapgood (I.V.XIII)

Second scene- The tasks Madeleine gives to Javert are taken from I.VI.II, but Madeleine’s words have been significantly shortened and modified.- “I shall continue to serve until I am superseded” is also from I.VI.II

Third scene- Where Javert says “I had had an idea for a long time; a resemblance…”, the rest of that paragraph is pretty much straight from the book, although it has been modified a little (I had to remove the word “loins”, for one thing, because I just can’t take that word seriously)- “And what reply did you receive?” / “That I was mad.” / “Well?” (I.VI.II)- From “Javert, you are a man of honour…” to “We shall see” is pretty much straight from the book, although Javert’s little speech has been heavily cut back and I’ve added in little descriptive elements, like having him pace around the room, etc. Basically anytime text from the book is broken up by description, that’s me, because Hugo loves to do just a block of dialogue and I simply cannot handle not saying exactly what my little guy is doing At All Times.- “All this was uttered in a proud, humble, despairing, yet convinced tone.” – This bit is actually NOT dialogue, but it comes right after Javert gives his little speech in the book, and I borrowed that also because it fit so well.

 

Translation of French terms used in this chapter:la veuve = the widow"N'est-ce pas, ma chère?" = “Is that not so, my dear?”“Je vous remercie” / “De rien” = “I thank you” / “You’re welcome”

When Fantine's condition worsens, the mayor is at her side almost constantly, much to Javert's annoyance.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


In spite of Cosette’s visits, which had lifted Fantine’s spirits dramatically, her condition had begun to worsen. Javert could hardly remain ignorant of the fact, for the mayor’s condition mirrored Fantine’s: when she suffered, so did he, in his own way. He turned inward, becoming uncommonly quiet. One could tell from his bloodshot and purple-rimmed eyes that he was not sleeping well, and the permanent tension in his jaw spoke to the strain he was under. 

The mayor was in the habit of visiting Fantine twice a day and remaining for half an hour, but when she grew so weak that the doctors were sure she would succumb to the illness, Madeleine’s visits grew longer and longer. After all she had been through, after he had brought Cosette to her—her daughter whom she had yet to see grow up, her daughter whom she had missed for so many years—this could not be the end. Madeleine could not accept that. So he remained at her side in prayer for long stretches of time, appealing to the good God to save her. 

Once, Javert had arrived at the mairie to give his report, only to be told that the mayor was at the hospital—so Javert had gone to him there. 

He had let Sister Simplice lead him into the ward, where they had found Fantine asleep in her bed, and Madeleine asleep in a chair beside her. The mayor clutched one of Fantine’s small, frail hands in both of his. 

Something about this scene brought Javert up short. The sleeping man was vulnerable in a way Javert had never seen him before, his expression completely unguarded, all the tension gone from him. Javert had the sense of trespassing on something private: surely he should not see his superior thus; he should not be permitted to know how soft the mayor’s face appeared in repose. Yet, despite feeling that he should turn away, he did not: he could not seem to help looking. 

Sister Simplice, upon seeing her patient and her mayor arranged in this tender way, let out a little sigh, obviously touched. 

“Oh! Must you really wake him, Monsieur l’inspecteur?” she said regretfully. 

Javert’s eyes remained fixed on the mayor’s sleeping face for a long moment before he turned back to Sister Simplice and muttered, “I suppose not. Have you a pen and paper?” 

He wrote out his report as best he could, and left the note for Sister Simplice to give to Madeleine later. This was quite unorthodox—but so was the mayor’s behaviour of late, so Javert could hardly be blamed for this departure from the normal procedure. It was really Madeleine’s own fault that Javert was forced into such makeshift solutions. He felt a surge of annoyance: Madeleine was wasting both of their time, and the mayor’s time especially was far too valuable to be squandered in this way.

Preparing to leave the hospital, Javert stopped to consider Madeleine once more. The mayor was seated in a simple wooden chair that looked none too comfortable. His head had fallen back against the wall: he was sure to be sore when he woke. Javert sighed.

He turned back to the nun and said gruffly, “If Monsieur le maire insists on remaining here with this—” (he gestured scornfully to Fantine) “—invalid—at the expense of all his duties, he ought at least to be comfortable.”

“Indeed, Monsieur, we have tried to make him comfortable,” said Sister Simplice, a touch indignantly, “but he insists that he requires nothing. He prefers us to pretend he is not there at all. That way, our attention remains focused on the patients. We are to ignore him, he says, and offer him nothing.”

“That is idiotic,” Javert growled, too annoyed with the mayor to mince words. This was still more foolishness from Madeleine: a mayor ought to be treated with respect; his comfort ought to be seen to. 

Sister Simplice looked surprised but gratified by his reaction.

“In any case, he is asleep now, and cannot argue,” Javert resumed. “It is an opportunity not to be wasted,” he added drily. “Have you a spare pillow?”

Sister Simplice considered, and appeared to find this a reasonable point. She went away, and a few minutes later, reappeared at Javert’s side holding a pillow. There they stood, a few feet away from the mayor, Sister Simplice clutching a pillow to her chest. Both turned to look at the sleeping man.

After a moment, Sister Simplice said, in a defeated tone, “I do not think it can be placed without rousing him.”

“Mais si,” Javert countered. “I am sure it can be done. It requires only a gentle touch.” 

Sister Simplice held out her age-spotted hand. “See how it shakes, Monsieur,” she said apologetically. Her tremor was not severe, but it was nevertheless noticeable. “A gentle touch I may have, but one would need a steadier hand than mine.” 

Javert looked about him. The other nurse, Sister Perpétue, was busy with a patient. Javert could hardly interrupt her for such an absurd task. He was regretting having brought it up in the first place. If this was how the mayor cared to spend his valuable time—mooning about at the bedside of a former prostitute—perhaps he deserved to come out of it with a pain in his neck. Perhaps it would make him see sense. Perhaps it would serve him right.

But Sister Simplice was looking at Javert expectantly, and after all, hadn’t he always done what duty called for? This was no different; it was a service the mayor required of him—whether or not the mayor was presently aware of that fact.

He sighed. “Oh, very well. Give it here.” He took the pillow from her and turned it over in his hands, scrutinising the mayor’s position. 

“It will be easier with two people,” he decided. “I will lift his head—that is where the steady hand is required—and you will slide the pillow in. Can you do that?” He handed the cushion back to her, and she accepted it readily, nodding.

He was feeling rather ridiculous. He ought to be briefing his men on a matter of apprehending a suspect; instead, he found himself briefing a nun on a matter of clandestine pillow bestowal. It was hardly an appropriate task for a police inspector. But Sister Simplice was at the ready, wielding the pillow as Javert had seen some men wield a cudgel; so he suppressed a sigh, and together they approached the mayor on opposite sides and got into position. 

Taking a deep breath, Javert leaned over and very carefully slid his hand under the mayor’s head. He swallowed. He had not realised how very close he would have to get: their faces were almost touching. Javert could see every strand of hair in the curl that fell across Madeleine’s forehead in a blend of dark brown and grey, even a touch of white. He took in the dark sweep of Madeleine’s eyelashes, the fine lines sparking outward from his closed eyes, the bowed curvature of his lips, the minuscule patch of stubble near his jawline that had been missed by the razorblade.

That aching vulnerability he had seen in the mayor’s face was even more excruciating from so near, and he had an even stronger sense of trespassing against what was right, of barging in on something private and secret. Moreover, there was something intimate in the way he was now cradling Madeleine’s head in his hand. 

Suddenly nonplussed at the position he found himself in, Javert could not help letting out the breath he had been holding, which ghosted across Madeleine’s cheek. The mayor’s eyelashes fluttered, but his eyes did not open. Javert’s heart stalled, then restarted.

He swallowed. Very gently, he lifted Madeleine’s head a fraction, and Sister Simplice, ready for her cue, swiftly slid the pillow in from the other side. Madeleine stirred again, but still did not wake, and his head fell back against the pillow.

Their eyes meeting over the mayor’s sleeping form, Javert and Sister Simplice exchanged a triumphant glance, then hastily retreated.

His task accomplished, Javert turned to leave again. He had to thrust his hands into his pockets to hide the way they trembled. He had been steady when he had needed to be, but now that it was over, he shook as though the elderly nun’s tremor had been contagious. It was highly unusual. His heart, too, beat wildly. He let out a breath. Well, it had been a strange morning. 

After a nod at Sister Simplice, who still stood next to him, and one last glance at the mayor, he muttered, almost under his breath, “A glass of water might not go amiss, either. For when he wakes.” 

Then, without checking to see if Sister Simplice had heard him, he swept out of the building. 

His walk was imperious as he advanced up the street, his footsteps as heavy as his thoughts.

That the mayor should not only neglect his duties, but deprive himself of comfort, rest, and peace of mind in such a way, seemed untenable to Javert. And for what? For  whom ? For that woman Fantine! What was it about her that could inspire such behaviour? She was only a woman, after all, and of the lowest sort. This devotion went beyond charity. It was too far; it made no sense. Javert did not like it. 

 

***

 

It was a mercy that the low point in Fantine’s condition did not last long. When Javert returned to the hospital a few days later, again in search of the mayor, he found the patient awake and lucid. 

She stiffened at the sight of him, and looked at him warily, but did not seem overly distressed. If he had entered the room with that same formidable look he was given to adopt when making an arrest, with that hunter’s gleam in his eye and the beginning of a snarl already curling the corners of his mouth, it might have thrown her into a panic, but his thoughts were elsewhere; he was already thinking of what he would say to the mayor; thus, he had an air of distraction about him that made him seem still less intimidating than he might have.

Furthermore, Fantine had been in a confused state on the day of her arrest. In a fog made of equal parts brandy, illness, and misconception, she had been unable to follow the argument between Javert and Madeleine, and until the very end, she had thought it was Javert who wanted to see her go free, and Madeleine who wanted to see her imprisoned.

She no longer remembered much of her arrest and the confrontation that followed, and bore no real grudge against Javert, though he still frightened her a little. He might have borne a grudge against her for having evaded a deserved punishment, but he found he did not. However, he could not forget how she had spit in the mayor’s face—that was so egregious an offence that he did not think he would ever forget it. He somewhat begrudged her, as well, the distress she had caused Madeleine in the week previous.

“Monsieur l’inspecteur,” Fantine greeted him politely, with only a touch of nervousness. Her voice was hoarse from illness. 

He gave a brusque nod of acknowledgement. 

“You are here to see Monsieur le maire?” she guessed. “He has just gone to fetch my daughter. I am sure it won’t be long. He knows I cannot wait long to see my Cosette.” She brightened immediately at the thought of her daughter. “She is the most beautiful little girl, Monsieur Javert. Have you seen her? Oh! How impatient I am to see her again,” she effused, and this thought quickly overcame any residual fear she had felt for the policeman. “It is hard, though, you know, for a mother. I did not see her for so long. She was off living with those Thénardiers. Now the mayor has brought her back to me. Oh! He is too good. He will be here very soon, Monsieur l'inspecteur, don't fret.”

Javert surveyed the loquacious little woman with a look of mild exasperation. “Well,” he said distastefully, “since Monsieur le maire insists on using this hospital ward as an office for the present, I shall await him here. J’espère que tu—” he stopped, imagining the disapproving look Madeleine would give him if he were to hear Javert address Fantine with  tu.  He started again, switching to the more respectful  vous . “I certainly hope you are feeling better soon, Mademoiselle,” he said, in a slightly sardonic tone, which she did not notice, “for the mayor’s desk is gathering dust, and I shudder to think of all the work that awaits him upon it. Une véritable montagne de paperasses, je n’ai aucune doute.”

Fantine had the decency, at least, to look contrite. “Oh! Ce Père Madeleine—mon ange, il est mon ange,” she sighed. “Il est tombé du ciel. He is too good, too good by far. I wish he would not worry so; I am really alright. All I needed was my little Cosette, and now that she is never very far from me, I know I shall recover. Ah! I have no longer any fever; I am well. Alors, bientôt, I am sure, Monsieur le maire shall return to his desk, to his work. I am sorry to have kept him; he will have no more cause to worry over me. Oh! If only he could understand it is not his fault! I do not blame him any longer.”

“Blame him?” Javert frowned at her, immediately indignant. Madeleine had been nothing but kind to this woman, had been, in fact, devoted to the point of idiocy, and still she had managed to find fault in him? 

“For what happened to me, Monsieur,” Fantine clarified. “You see, it is because I was dismissed from the factory that I was forced to take up that other trade.” She smiled sadly. “Oh! It was for Cosette that I turned to sin, Monsieur l’inspecteur. Surely you can understand,” she said beseechingly, “I had no other choice—and all because I had lost my job. I thought the mayor himself had ordered my dismissal,” she went on. “In fact, he knew nothing of it, but I did not find that out until much later. Oh, mon pauvre Monsieur Madeleine, I blamed him for everything: I thought him the cause of all my unhappiness. I thought, if it were not for that man, I would still be an honest woman. I came to hate him,” she confessed, “even as the rest of Montreuil continued to love him—and I despised him all the more for that.”

Javert felt a jolt of recognition at this last revelation. Upon his arrival in Montreuil-sur-Mer, he had been quick to remark the residents’ excessive fondness for their mayor. He had thought it idiotic, had disdained their affection for the man he had never been able to trust. He had thought himself the only reasonable person in a town populated by fools. How strange that he should now discover someone who had shared this very sentiment—a sentiment he had thought he was alone in feeling—and it had turned out to be Fantine, of all people.

However, all he said in response was, “You have had a change of heart, in that case.”

“Oh, Monsieur,” said Fantine, with a shake of her shorn head, “More than words can say. There can be no one in town who loves the mayor better than I do now.”

“Is that so,” said Javert curtly. 

Then Sister Perpétue came by to dose Fantine with a swallow of some tonic or other, and Javert spoke to her no more. 

 

***

 

Spring unfurled into summer. Fantine grew healthy again, and the mayor, too, was soon much improved. 

Javert was relieved: at last, stability had returned; his meetings with the mayor were again happening at regular times and following the usual pattern, always taking place in the mayor’s office. He no longer had to traipse over to the hospital to see Madeleine; he was no longer inconvenienced; the mayor was no longer behaving irresponsibly. It was for these reasons that Javert was relieved—so he told himself. 

The truth was that he had been concerned for the mayor. The truth was that ever since that day in the hospital, when Javert had seen the mayor asleep at Fantine’s bedside, something in his perception of Madeleine had shifted. It was the first time he had seen him as neither his superior—the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, a sort of figurehead—nor as a criminal or a suspect; but simply as a man, a man untethered from his rank or role in society. In spite of how exasperating Javert still found him, the discovery of that hidden vulnerability behind the strength, the title, and the dignity of Madeleine; together with Javert’s newfound loyalty toward the mayor, had combined, without his really being aware of it, to awaken a sort of protective instinct within him, like that of a guard-dog for its master. Thus, in those days of Fantine’s ill health, when the mayor had been so sad and distant, Javert had felt a sort of restless unease in Madeleine’s presence, which he might have recognised as worry if he had known how to recognise such an emotion within himself. He did not—he regarded all emotions as a source of inconvenience, and had never learned to do otherwise than to suppress and ignore them; as a result, he did not understand himself, and did not know why he did the things he did, but still he had found himself lingering in the mayor’s presence, finding small ways to ease him, much as he had done in the hospital when he had asked Sister Simplice to fetch Madeleine a pillow. 

He had offered, once, brusquely, of course, and in some sardonic turn of phrase, to bring Madeleine back something to eat from the bakery near the mairie, and Madeleine had looked at him for a moment in surprise, and tilted his head, and then he had said slowly, “Well. Why do we not go together?” 

And they had done so. 

And after Fantine had begun to recover, and the mayor too had gone back to his old self, they had continued to do so.

They were not friends, of course; propriety forbade anything resembling a friendship between them, but nevertheless, by the end of the summer, it was common for them to visit the bakery together, and an ease had grown between them that did, in fact, faintly resemble a friendship. Certainly, they had grown accustomed to each other's company.

Once, as they had stepped out of the bakery together, they had seen Fantine walk past. She still covered her head with a scarf when she went out, but every now and then the odd golden strand escaped: her hair was growing longer. Her sunken face, too, had filled out and grown bright again.

As Fantine passed the bakery, Madeleine, by means of a pointed gaze and a jerk of the head, prompted Javert to look in her direction. She had not seen them, so no greetings were exchanged; they simply watched her pass by. Everything in her posture and her expression conveyed quiet dignity and contentment. 

Then Madeleine turned to Javert, a smile shining in his eyes. "I believe you once told me that a person could not change?”

Javert gazed at him warily.

Madeleine raised his eyebrows. “You look at me as if you doubt, but I recall it quite clearly. Did you not say, as well, that you  would  believe in redemption when you saw it?” 

Javert said nothing. He, too, could recall clearly the moment he had challenged the mayor with those words, but so much had happened since then. It was not that he had changed his mind, exactly, but he had been humbled by his own fallibility. His initial contempt for Madeleine's generous nature had somehow, ineffably, changed to begrudging tolerance. The mayor's presence had begun to soften him. He was as wax beneath the warmth of a candle-flame, and found he could not entirely regret it.

“Well?” Madeleine prompted. “Do you believe it now?”

"Monsieur, you are misremembering my exact statement,” Javert replied evenly. “I said a  man  could never change. I see no contradiction here." A faint smile twitched at the corners of his mouth. This was the closest he would come to conceding the point.

Madeleine smiled and laid a hand on Javert’s arm. “Touché, Inspector,” he said. “You are right, I have misquoted you.”

Javert could tell from the look in his eyes that he had understood the sentiment concealed behind the jape: that softening, that yielding, to which Javert could not yet admit. 

It was astounding, to be understood in this way, without the need for speech. Javert marvelled over how much passed between them unsaid, at how much he could now read in Madeleine’s expression and how much Madeleine could read in his. When had they come to know each other like that? How had he grown so accustomed to this man’s face, to the expressions it wore, to the flickers of deeper feeling that flashed and faded in his dark eyes? And how was it that, despite how well Javert had come to know those features, they never failed to fascinate him? How was it that he could look so long and so often, and still find something new there? It was the eyes, especially; they caught and held you—how well he understood, now, the devotion of the townsfolk—how absurd it was, how absurd  he was—and yet—

Javert only realised he had stared a moment too long when Madeleine looked quickly away, a flush starting on his cheeks, and peered up the street to watch Fantine grow ever smaller as she gained distance. Javert was reminded that, despite all he could read in Madeleine’s expression, there was still much he could not. There were times when Madeleine’s face smoothed over and became inscrutable, when Javert could tell Madeleine was holding back, that there was something just below the surface: that flicker in his eyes, like the quicksilver flash of a fish in shallow water, before it sinks back into the depths and is gone again.

Just now, Javert had seen this flicker—this flash of something half-hidden—right before the mayor had glanced back toward Fantine. It caused a misgiving to sprout somewhere deep in Javert’s chest.

When Fantine had gone entirely, Madeleine seemed to recover his faculties of speech, and turned back to Javert.

"You are terribly exacting, Inspector,” he said, picking up the conversation where they had left it. “Nevertheless, next time, I will be sure to show you a changed  man  instead.”

"I should like to see that, Monsieur,” said Javert sincerely, letting his gaze sweep back over the mayor, but taking care not to let it linger too long. 

“Would you?” The mayor appeared to be lost in thought.

 

***

 

Now that Fantine was out of hospital after months of convalescence, the last thing she wanted was to remain idle. She had not forgotten the joy she had felt when she had first begun to work at the factory, and had realised she was earning her own living. Her only reservation about returning might have been regarding Madame Victurnien, the malicious gossip who had pried into her affairs, but the woman had been so affronted when the mayor had sided with “that little hussy” that she had resigned. As for the superintendent of the women’s workroom, who had dismissed Fantine, she was a good woman at heart, who had thought she was doing the right thing. She continued on in her post, but with greater circumspection, weighted with the knowledge that the mayor had disapproved deeply of her actions.

Thus, Fantine had no qualms about returning to work, and when it became clear that this was her honest desire, Madeleine found her a place to live close to the factory. Cosette, meanwhile, continued to live with Madeleine for the present, while Fantine found her feet and regained her strength. It was an arrangement that seemed to suit all three of them very well. Fantine and Cosette still saw each other every day, and the three of them would often go on outings together.

It was on just such an occasion, early in September, when Javert saw them go by, and turned to watch them walk up the street, a curious expression on his face. It struck him that from afar, they looked like a family: father, mother, and child. A gentleman and his young wife. This thought disturbed him, though, of course, it was only a ridiculous fiction. 

But…what if it were not as far from the truth as it seemed? Javert looked more closely. 

Madeleine and Fantine were laughing, walking with Cosette in the middle. Cosette was holding both of their hands, trying to swing herself between them. Fantine's side flagged. She dropped Cosette's hand so that the girl could hang onto Madeleine with all her weight. Cosette clung to Madeleine’s forearm and he lifted her into the air, swinging her around as if she weighed no more than a feather. Then he set her back down, and she took off running and skipping, full of energy. Madeleine and Fantine looked at each other, smiling.

There! What was in that look? 

A wild happiness, almost rapture!

Did that not say it all?

 Oh Madeleine, thought Javert, his heart sinking.  You fool.

Had the mayor’s partiality for Fantine not always been peculiar? Javert had once believed it to be a part of his ruse, another way to wear the mask of benevolence. Fantine herself believed it to be a sense of responsibility tinged with guilt. Now a different possibility came to light.

An absurd match, to be sure. But although Javert had never been in love himself, he knew well enough that the heart was not governed by common sense. Yes, it really could be true. Good God, it would be just like him! 

 You poor fool, Madeleine, you utter fool.  Javert brought a hand to his forehead.  What am I to do with you? 

Javert's knuckles were white on the head of his cane. With a haughty sweep of his greatcoat, he turned his back on the little family—what else to call them?—and strode off down the cobblestone street, but his mind was not at peace for the rest of the day, and he slept poorly that night.

Extremely long chapter notes this time, apparently. ¯\_ (ツ)_/¯ Sorry about that. Or, you're welcome? IDK.

This chapter really gave me a run for my money. Fool that I am, I had thought that, having drafted the whole story already, it would just be a matter of editing as I went along. Chapter 4 had other ideas, and the Chapter 4 I now present to you is drastically different from the original Chapter 4, and it is now past midnight as I post this (and I have to be up early tomorrow). So it goes. (And hopefully this late night does not affect the quality of the chapter, though I've pretty much just been moving commas around and agonising over small details, so it should be alright...)

Much of this is new content that just kind of…kept spilling out while I was trying to edit, much to my combined annoyance and gratification. This includes the pillow scene, which I know is a bit ridiculous, but is hopefully also a bit delightful. I remembered the coffin scene in the Brick (which I personally found ridiculous and delightful in the best way possible) and I swear I could hear Victor Hugo’s ghost egging me on.

At first when I was contemplating writing the pillow scene, I couldn’t decide if it was believable enough for Valjean to sleep through that—like, he’s on the run and in disguise, he’s probably a pretty light sleeper, and you’d think someone touching his head unexpectedly would jolt him awake no matter how exhausted he was. But then I realised the scene is equally funny if you imagine Valjean wakes up immediately, goes straight into Gay Panic, and is so at a loss on how to deal with the situation that he just…plays dead like an overgrown possum. Then as soon as Javert is gone, his eyes fly open like “wtf just happened”. So…yeah that part is open to your interpretation. Either Valjean is so sleep-deprived and Javert is so gentle that he sleeps right on through, or…the other thing. I personally think both are pretty valid. Also, speaking of the coffin scene, I just remembered Valjean canonically falls asleep while inside the coffin, so I’m now thinking it’s entirely possible that he sleeps through the pillow thing. But anyway.

Also, in checking back through the book, I noticed that the hospital (well, “infirmary”) is situated INSIDE the factory (see the second sentence in I.V.VII). But it’s also inside Madeleine’s house?? Somehow? (See the first sentence in I.VI.I.) So like….does he LIVE in the factory? It kinda seems like he might? Anyway, for simplicity’s sake (and because I just like it better), I’m choosing to continue assuming that the hospital, the factory, and Madeleine’s abode are, in fact, three entirely separate locations. I am very sorry to disappoint any diehard fans of the “3 in 1” factospital-house extravaganza.

French:- “Mais si” = “But of course it can” / “On the contrary” (“mais” is “but”, and “si” is a way of saying yes that is specifically used as a contradiction to something else, like the German “doch”).- “J’espère que tu—” = “I hope that you—” (familiar form of “you”)- “Une véritable montagne de paperasses, je n’ai aucune doute.” = “A veritable mountain of paperwork, I have no doubt.”- “Ce Père Madeleine—mon ange, il est mon ange [...] Il est tombé du ciel.” = “That Père Madeleine—my angel, he is my angel. He fell from the sky/heaven.”

Brick lines:- Just one short one: Fantine’s “I have no longer any fever; I am well.”

Javert is determined to discover whether Madeleine really does have feelings for Fantine. In the meantime, some of his long-held beliefs about justice continue to shift.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


As autumn arrived, Javert fell back into his old habit of studying Madeleine, just as he had done in the search for evidence connecting him to Jean Valjean. This investigation was of a different sort, but Javert was taking it almost as seriously. He needed to determine whether he was correct in his suspicion about Madeleine’s feelings for Fantine. 

Though he tried to tell himself it was none of his business, he was plagued by unpleasant imaginings that drove him on. In his mind’s eye, he kept seeing Madeleine enfolding Fantine in his strong arms and kissing her passionately on the mouth. The image was painfully clear, and it drove him to distraction. It was well known in the town that Madeleine was a confirmed bachelor, who in all his years in Montreuil-sur-Mer, had never made advances toward any woman. It was a fact Javert found oddly comforting. Women were a source of complication, and he liked Madeleine as he was: a calm and steady presence, who could always be counted upon to handle any situation that might arise, and was—as Javert had come to realise of late—good company besides. This was not an opinion Javert held of many men, particularly in the latter respect. He could not help but feel that if Madeleine were to take up with Fantine, Javert would lose him in some sense, and he felt he could not abide it. 

Of still more grave concern in the matter was the mayor’s reputation. To think, after all these years’ patient indifference to the best of Montreuil’s womankind, the mayor getting involved with a former fille publique! The uproar would be beyond imagining.

And worse yet—because the more Javert thought about it, the worse it got—from what he knew of Madeleine’s principles, he found it difficult to imagine him taking a mistress. No, if it came to that, he would surely prefer to marry, to pledge his devotion and sanctify the union before God and the church.

A mistress was one thing. A wife was quite another. A wife who had only months before been a prostitute was…Javert could not even think what it was. Unthinkable, then. It was unthinkable. He could only hope that Madeleine was not so foolish. 

But therein lay the purpose of his new investigation, and thus, he determined that whenever he saw Madeleine and Fantine together, he would take care to observe closely, reading into every look and gesture. When he saw Madeleine alone, he would be equally watchful, looking out for the symptoms commonly displayed by the amorous. He was confident nothing would get past him—and if his disturbing notion proved correct, he would find a way to confront the mayor and do his utmost to talk some sense into him. 

 

***

 

When Madeleine suggested he show Javert around his bead factory, Javert had agreed at once: he knew Fantine was working there again, and it would give him another opportunity to observe how the mayor behaved around her.

Javert had felt sure Madeleine would not pass up a chance to visit with Fantine, but to his surprise, the mayor led him briskly past the door to the women’s workroom.

“Will we not enter here?” Javert tried.

“That is the women’s workroom,” said Madeleine. “I seldom go in there. Let us leave the ladies in peace.” 

Javert was cheered. Perhaps he had been wrong after all.

As they entered the men’s workroom and began a slow stroll across the factory floor, past the rows of labourers hard at work, Madeleine launched into an explanation. 

“Here is the whole matter,” he said. “White jet comes from Norway, black jet comes from England, black glass jewellery comes from Germany…”

Javert watched the workers’ hands in motion as the mayor explained. The noise of the factory was such that he had to lean in close to hear. It was a pleasure to have Madeleine’s deep, expressive voice filling his ears.

“Jet is the lightest, the most precious, the most costly. Imitations can be made in France as well as in Germany. What is needed is a little anvil two inches square, and a lamp burning spirits of wine to soften the wax…”

Suddenly, Javert’s attention was caught by a labourer stationed toward the back of the room. He stiffened.

“The wax was formerly made with resin and lampblack, and cost four livres the p—”

"Monsieur—” Javert broke in urgently. He had grabbed Madeleine’s arm. “Monsieur, I recognise that man. I checked his papers when he first arrived in town weeks ago. He is an ex-convict; his passport—"

The man was absorbed in his work, and had not noticed Javert’s accusatory gaze.

"Thank you, Inspector, I am well aware,” Madeleine said. “Leclerc has been employed here since his arrival in Montreuil-sur-Mer. He is an excellent worker."

Javert swallowed his shock. It was not the first time Madeleine had surprised him, and as he had grown to respect the mayor—even to like him—he tried his best to understand. 

"I suppose his labour is cheap,” he said doubtfully. “That is a benefit to you.”

"No, Inspector,” Madeleine corrected gently. “It is a benefit to me that he does excellent work. He is paid the same rate as every other man I employ, and indeed, every woman as well.”

This was too much for Javert. "Surely not! An ex-convict earn the same as an honest man?"

"I fail to see how this should surprise you, Inspector. I had thought you a man of justice. The same work for the same pay: that is justice."

"A man who has committed a crime must face the consequences:  that  is justice,” Javert contradicted.

"He has already faced the consequences,” said Madeleine. “Is that not the purpose of a prison sentence? Is that not the meaning of those years he spent labouring in chains? What is the purpose of that, if not as a consequence?”

Javert had no ready answer.

"Let us imagine I paid him the pittance you think he deserves," Madeleine went on quietly. "He would not earn enough to live on. What would he do then? He would starve, or else, given no other choice…perhaps he would steal a wheel of cheese, or even, shall we say, a loaf of bread. Then I would have made a recidivist of a man who came to me seeking honest work. That is an outcome disfavourable to him, to me, and surely to yourself as well, Inspector Javert."

Again, Javert struggled for a response. "You ought to keep a close eye on him, all the same," he muttered finally, but his voice lacked conviction. 

 

***

 

One morning a few weeks later, duty found Javert keeping watch at the edge of a square. He stood quiet and still, blending with the shadows in his dark coat, and went unnoticed by most. This was as he preferred it: it gave him the chance to observe the citizens of Montreuil-sur-Mer without being himself observed.

It was now October, and the air was chill. Javert drew his greatcoat close about him as a gust of wind blew through. He glanced up mistrustfully at the sky: by the look of the clouds, rain would be soon to follow. He turned his attention back to the square before him, where a gentleman was approaching a shabby young woman selling matches on the corner.

The gentleman reached into his pocket for change, and as he did so, Javert caught the flash of a silver piece plummeting from the man's pocket and skittering along the cobblestones. 

Flustered, the gentleman turned in a circle, searching the pavement and muttering. He would not find the coin: Javert had seen the enterprising young woman put her foot down upon it while the man's back was turned. His skin prickled in anticipation of an arrest.

"Have I dropped a coin?" asked the flustered gentleman.

"Non, Monsieur, I do not believe so," soothed the match seller. “I did not see anything fall.”

The man patted his pockets again, spun around once more in the manner of a dog chasing its tail, then at last, shrugged and completed his purchase. He strode away without a backward glance.

Javert watched as the young woman stealthily removed her prize from under her shoe and tucked it away in her dress. Now was the moment. Javert stepped out from where he stood hidden, advancing on the match seller from behind, quickly and quietly, until he was near enough to breathe down her neck. Then he seized her by the shoulder.

She gasped and spun around. She took note of his uniform, and a look of terror spread over her face. Her face, Javert noted, was dirty, and the shoe that had been standing upon the coin was in disrepair. He recalled what Madeleine had said in the factory, about desperation and what it led to—what a person might do if they could not earn enough to live on. This woman must earn very little in her trade. Was it enough to get by? Even assuming it was, how wretched of a life must it be? How much further could five francs stretch for a poor woman like this than for a gentleman of the sort who had dropped it? Would that coin really be missed by its original owner? He thought of Madeleine and his convict labourer, Madeleine and his Fantine, Madeleine and his principles. Madeleine and his damned soft eyes. Damn it.

He let go of the woman's shoulder.

"Excusez-moi, Mademoiselle," he mumbled. "I mistook you for someone else."

The frightened woman wasted no time in gathering her skirts and scurrying away. It was as she rounded the corner and disappeared from sight that the dark clouds broke overhead, and the rain began at last to fall. 

By the time Javert entered the mairie to deliver his report, it had been raining steadily for more than an hour. He was soaked through, and had to do his best to make a dignified entrance while dripping water on the floor of Madeleine’s office. To make matters worse, he couldn’t seem to stop himself from shivering.

“Inspector, you are drenched!” Madeleine exclaimed upon catching sight of him.

“I am aware, Monsieur,” Javert replied tersely. What was the point of stating the obvious like that? Without stopping to await a response, Javert launched into his report, trying to suppress the shivers that wracked him.

“Perhaps,” Madeleine interrupted, looking concerned, “you would like to stand by the fire?”

Javert’s gaze strayed toward the fire’s merry orange glow, and he found he could not resist the offer. He managed a nod of thanks to the mayor, then strode rapidly across the room to the fireside. His shivers calmed as he gave the rest of his report by the warmth of the hearth.

After he had finished speaking, Javert steeled himself to go back out into the cold and wet. With a reluctant parting glance at Madeleine’s crackling fire, he turned to go.

Madeleine remarked, "The rain today is dreadful, Inspector. Perhaps you ought to remain here until it has slowed."

Javert scoffed. "Monsieur le maire, what would you think of Inspector Javert, were he to let a touch of inclement weather keep him from his duty?"

"I should think him very practical for staying where it is dry, rather than catching his death of cold in such a downpour,” Madeleine replied readily. “I should admire his foresight: sheltering indoors for perhaps an hour to spare himself the many hours of wretchedness a flu would produce. Come! Your coat is soaked through. At least allow it to dry a little."

"It will only get wet again," said Javert peevishly.

Madeleine raised his eyebrows. "It will not," he said, “if you do as I say, and wait until the shower has passed.”

Javert regarded him in exasperation. 

"No one," added the mayor, "would think to do crime in such weather."

Javert’s withering stare, usually so powerful a weapon, appeared to have lost its effect on Madeleine, who merely smiled in the manner one might smile at a kitten trying to look fierce, and said, “Let me help you with your coat.”

Madeleine stood, closed the distance between them, and reached for the top button of Javert's coat. Javert’s breath hitched as Madeleine's fingers went to work, steadily undoing every silver button in the nearest row of Javert’s double-breasted coat. Then Madeleine reached across his chest for the second row of buttons, bringing their faces closer than ever. 

When the mayor’s eyes met his for an instant, it was as if a static shock passed between them. He felt a crackle of energy, akin to that which permeates the air before a thunderstorm. He was almost frightened. It was akin to that intensity he had once strived for during their arguments; it fed that part of him that thrived on setting Madeleine’s eyes ablaze. Only this time, the mayor was not angry and neither was he, they were simply standing very close together, and Madeleine’s fingers were moving steadily down his chest, undoing all the buttons of his coat—and still this heat, this energy.

It was not, then, only a thing of anger, it was not the thrill of the chase or the heat of confrontation. It was something more, or something else altogether, something particular to Madeleine. He recalled the brush of Madeleine’s fingers and the heat of his breath as the mayor had tied the ribbon in Javert’s hair; the flutter of Madeleine’s eyelashes and the look of his sleeping face that day in the hospital, and the way his own hands had trembled afterwards. He remembered the pull of Madeleine’s eyes, the pull he had felt even when he had still believed him to be a criminal; the pull he felt now, stronger than ever. He remembered that treacherous inner voice that had declared,  I wanted to see you burn. That same treacherous inner voice awakened once more, and it insisted on whispering a name for this pull, this energy:  desire.

Javert stood perfectly still, afraid almost to move, his heart beating so wildly he was sure Madeleine must feel its thumping in his fingertips. Through all the layers of Javert’s clothes, Madeleine's touch burned like a brand. He felt as if all the air had gone from his lungs.

Madeleine undid the last button and eased the coat from Javert’s shoulders. He peered at Javert worriedly, noticing his shortness of breath. 

“Are you well?” asked Madeleine gently. “I hope you have not caught a chill already.”

“I am well,” Javert managed. “It is only—yes, the chill. The chill air, I mean. It has…well, it has chilled me.” He winced as he stuttered through the sentence, feeling the blood rush to his face. 

“The warmth here will do you a world of good,” said Madeleine sympathetically. He hung Javert’s coat close to the fire. Dizzy and dumbfounded though Javert was, he had to admit it was indeed a relief to be free of the heavy, wet coat. 

Madeleine brought a second chair up to the desk. "Please, make yourself comfortable," he said. "You can see there is no shortage of paper and ink—surely you have reports and letters to write. I have no doubt you can find a way to occupy yourself."

Begrudgingly, Javert sat. Madeleine reached across him to clear a space on that side of the desk, shifting books and documents.

As he did so, Javert's eye was caught by a packet of letters Madeleine had in his hand. He had no wish to appear indiscreet, but he couldn't help noticing—

"These are in English."

"So they are," Madeleine acknowledged. "There is a philanthropist in Kent whom I have come to admire. Even on this side of the Channel, word has reached me of his good works, and I believe I have much to learn from him. There was formerly an Englishman residing in Montreuil, too, if you recall—Monsieur Crosby, the tailor—and with his assistance, I began a correspondence. Now that Crosby has left town, however, I will have to find another man well-versed in the English tongue, so that I may continue to write."

"It is well, Monsieur; you have found him."

Reflexively, Madeleine looked about the room. Then he started. "You, Javert?"

Javert folded his arms. "Must you appear so surprised? It is useful, you must concede, for a police spy to speak in other tongues when he wishes; doubly so, if it is not suspected of him that he possesses such faculties." 

"Tongues in the plural? Are there yet more?" Madeleine looked impressed.

"A police spy," said Javert, "does not volunteer such information readily." He regarded Madeleine with a hint of a smile, which the mayor returned twofold.

"Then certainly, you must remain with me a while, at least until the sky clears," Madeleine said, “for I find I have need of you." He laid his hand upon Javert’s for a moment.

Javert swallowed. "My pleasure to serve you, Monsieur le maire," he said, with a hint of a quaver in his voice.

As for that voice within him that whispered of desire, he had silenced it, mastered it, buried it; he would not think of it again. 

 

***

On a crisp afternoon some time later, when the ground had dried from the rain and the autumn sky was a clear cold blue, Javert was out on patrol.

It was perhaps true that he had given no more thought to the stifled revelation that had taken place within him that rainy day in the mayor’s office, but this was not to say it did not plague him; in fact,  not  thinking about it was an active effort, and one that used an extraordinary amount of mental energy. It almost certainly cost him more dearly than if he had simply faced the matter head-on; of course, he could not, and so carried on in a confused agony of denial. 

As he was making his rounds, and steadfastly not thinking about the thing he was determined not to think about, he passed Fantine’s little house, and was nonplussed to find Madeleine chopping wood in the garden. As there was only a low fence, Javert could easily see him from the street. 

He stood and watched for a moment as Madeleine swung the axe. He was in shirtsleeves, and his muscles swelled under the fabric. He appeared to be perfectly at his ease, barely breaking a sweat as he laboured.

Javert did not know how long he watched, transfixed but keeping his mind carefully blank, before Madeleine noticed him and threw down the axe, acknowledging his presence with a nod.

“Good afternoon, Monsieur,” Javert said weakly. “I confess I am surprised to find you thus occupied.”

“Well, Fantine will be needing some firewood,” said Madeleine, “and besides that, I’ve a notion of building her a set of shelves for her new home.”

Javert felt a surge of something like annoyance and triumph combined. Here it was, then: the mayor’s little infatuation, made plain for all to see. What would people say, to see the mayor behaving in this manner? Besotted by a—but no, he shied away from the venomous word  whore , finding he could no longer use it to describe Fantine, not even in his head. 

Even so, surely it was inappropriate for the mayor to be out gallivanting in shirtsleeves where anyone could see him! Let alone to perform such tasks for a, well, a lowly woman like Fantine. People would talk, to be sure. 

 People will notice, Monsieur, how you care for her, thought Javert. He could not think of anything worse than that—having one’s private weaknesses exposed to the world. He would have to say something. For the man’s own sake, he would have to say something. To save him from himself.

Javert shuffled his feet. "Perhaps it is not my place, Monsieur, but do you not think it a little improper to perform such a chore? You are, after all, a mayor and a gentleman, not a common labourer."

"That is true,” Madeleine replied readily. “I am not a woodcutter. It is probable that I am doing a poor enough job compared to a man who knows his trade well. Perhaps I would do better to find a good woodcutter, and pay him well for his time. Do you know of any?"

"That is not what I meant, Monsieur. You are doing a fine job, but..."

"You flatter me, I am sure, but in that case, I see no reason why I should not continue."

Javert felt the conversation had somehow gotten away from him, and he could not see where it had gone awry or how to set it right. 

He was saved from having to reply: just then, Fantine emerged from the little house, holding a platter of small cakes. Cosette skipped along at her mother’s side. 

Catching sight of Javert, the little girl bounced in excitement. “Monsieur l’inspecteur!” she cried. “Maman, c’est Monsieur l’inspecteur de police!”

“Oui, ma petite, it is Monsieur Javert.” Fantine smiled at her daughter, then acknowledged Javert with a nod. 

Cosette’s flaxen curls were tied back with a ribbon. The months she had spent in Madeleine’s keeping had given her hair a healthy lustre it had lacked when Javert had first seen her. 

“Monsieur l’inspecteur, I’ve a ribbon just like yours!” she exclaimed in delight, turning her head to show him. 

“So you have,” he said, with a touch of diffidence: speaking with children still did not come naturally to him. He was gratified that Cosette did not seem to find fault in his reply.

Meanwhile, Madeleine had picked up the axe once more. 

Fantine glanced at the mayor as he renewed his grip, then turned to Javert. “You see how he is, Monsieur l’inspecteur,” she said, indicating Madeleine with a little jerk of her head. “Toujours en train de faire ces actes de bonté. Oh, he is too kind, mais Monsieur Javert, you must not think I do nothing for him in return! No, you mustn’t think that. See, I have made these cakes for him, and later he shall have tea—oh yes, you will,” she said fiercely to the mayor, who had been about to protest, “I insist, and will not take no for an answer! You see, Monsieur Javert, this is just what he does, he says non merci, non merci, not for me, pas nécessaire—and takes nothing for himself, only gives and gives. Ah, but I won’t let him get away with it! I have been darning his socks as well, and mending his shirts,” she said proudly.

“Surely that is what he employs a servant for,” Javert muttered.

“I’m afraid good Lefèvre is getting on in years,” Madeleine interjected, naming the single servant he employed, “and threading a needle requires a sharpness of vision that age has long since taken from her. I could just as well do the mending myself, of course—”

“—but I don’t let him,” Fantine broke in. “I shan’t let you, Monsieur,” she said fondly, turning to the mayor. She held the platter of cakes out to him. “Take one, my good Monsieur, have one while they’re hot!”

Madeleine laid down his axe once more and spread his hands before him, looking down at his palms. “I shall have to wash up first—I am all covered in dirt and sap,” he said. His warm, satisfied smile suggested he did not at all mind being covered in dirt and sap.

He was an unusual man, the mayor. Well-bred, but he did not always act like it. There were not a great deal of bourgeois gentlemen who took pleasure in manual labour of this sort, but Madeleine evidently did. Javert had felt the callouses on the mayor’s hands when Madeleine had tied his hair back for him; it was not something he had thought much about at the time, but now he realised Madeleine’s hands were hands that knew labour well. Javert felt perhaps he ought to disapprove, but found he did not: there was something about it that pleased him—the contrast between the roughness of those hands and the gentleness of their touch, much like the contrast between the strength in Madeleine’s body and the softness in his eyes. He was a man made up of contradictions; perhaps it was for this reason he had so confounded Javert, who had always tended to think of men as being each one thing or another. Yet here was Madeleine, who seemed to be everything at once, who was down-to-earth yet dignified, humble yet proud, who was scarcely to be believed. Here was Madeleine holding out his hands before him, and they were the same hands that signed documents with a fine gold dip-pen, and yet they were rough hands, labourer’s hands, now caked with dirt and sap, and still Javert could not help thinking how it would feel if those hands—

Cosette’s small voice interrupted his thoughts, perhaps mercifully. 

“Dirty paws,” she scolded Madeleine. “Dirty paws, Monsieur le tigre.”

“Ah, yes,” Madeleine smiled. “We were playing earlier,” he explained to Javert. “I am not sure what game it was, but I am sure I was a tiger; I was told as much in no uncertain terms.”

Cosette turned to Fantine. “Maman, il faut nourrir Monsieur le tigre,” she said.

Fantine laughed. “Monsieur le tigre must be fed, indeed. Do you think tigers eat cake, Cosette?”

“This tiger does,” said Madeleine good-naturedly.

Cosette turned to her mother. “Feed Monsieur le tigre a cake,” she commanded. “His paws are dirty.”

Fantine and Madeleine both laughed.

Cosette reached up, grasping toward the platter, but she was too small to reach. “Feed one to Monsieur le tigre,” she said again to Fantine, then burst out in a fit of giggles.

Fantine was grinning her gap-toothed grin, her daughter’s laughter brightening her whole face. “Ça te fait rigoler, ma petite?” she chuckled. “That makes you laugh, does it?”

Still grinning, Fantine picked a cake up off the platter and held it out in front of Madeleine’s face. The mayor leaned in and gamely took a bite, giving a little snarl for good measure, and looked down at Cosette, who shrieked in delight. 

Javert, still standing by the fence, had been watching with silent attention. As Madeleine leaned in to take a bite of cake from Fantine’s hand, his stomach gave a violent lurch. He was sure he had seen Madeleine’s lips brush Fantine’s fingertips. He swallowed hard.

No, he had not been mistaken about them: here it was, plain as day; the way they played at husband and wife—he with his wood chopping, she with her cooking and mending—and now this, eating out of each other’s hands, that soft touch of mouth to fingers, what else could that be but… 

So, it was true, then. It was true, and Javert would have to intervene. Perhaps the mayor did not realise the gravity of the situation: Javert owed it to him to alert him. In their next meeting, then, he would broach the topic, no matter how unpleasant; the mayor’s reputation hung in the balance.

For now, though, all he wanted was to get away. He took a step back from the fence, and was about to retreat hastily up the street, when Madeleine turned to look at him again.

“Perhaps Monsieur l’inspecteur would like a cake as well,” said the mayor. 

“Pas nécessaire,” Javert said hastily, “not for me.”

“Cosette,” said Madeleine, ignoring Javert, “would you bring a cake to…” he paused, and made a great show of contemplating Javert, tilting his head and putting his hand to his chin. “Monsieur le loup,” he said at last.

Javert gave him a withering look.

Madeleine responded with a smile, then looked down at Cosette. “Tu vois?” he said to the girl. “Le regard d’un loup, n’est-ce pas?”

Cosette nodded gravely. She turned to Javert. Pointing at Madeleine, she said with great solemnity, “He is the tiger,” then pointing at Javert, “and you are the wolf. And you take tea together. And you eat cakes together.”

Madeleine shrugged. “You see,” he said to Javert.

Smiling, Fantine lowered the platter of cakes to Cosette’s level. “Go on and take one to the good Monsieur Loup, ma petite,” she said. Cosette took one, and ran it over to Javert.

She stopped in front of him and said imperiously, “First let me see your paws, Monsieur le loup.”

Javert looked at Madeleine, who was stifling a laugh. He fixed the mayor with a cold stare and said in a severe tone, “It is not funny.” 

The mayor looked chastened, and opened his mouth to say something conciliatory.

Before he could speak, Javert went on sternly: “Mademoiselle is quite correct. Cleanliness is a serious matter. You would do well to remember that…” Madeleine was now struggling to fathom whether or not Javert was in earnest. Javert took a moment to enjoy the perplexed look on his face before adding, “Monsieur le tigre.”

Madeleine broke, and began to laugh, while Javert, perfectly composed, bent down and held out his large hands for the little girl to inspect, as seriously as if he were subjecting himself to an inspection by the prefect of police. 

Cosette was quick to make her judgement: “Clean paws!” she pronounced, and handed over the cake.

Javert accepted it gingerly, with a murmur of thanks. 

He caught Madeleine’s eye and gave a nod. “I will leave you to your…” he made a loose gesture, meant to encompass the garden and all that lay within it: the axe, the wood, the cakes, the woman, the child. A whole little world, and he on the other side of the fence, looking in. 

Well—hadn’t it always been that way?

In fact, Madeleine looked so contented in that little world of his own design, that Javert did not like to contemplate the conversation he would soon need to have with him. It was plain to see the mayor was happy, and if it was Fantine who made him so, then perhaps…but no, it was impossible. The scandal to result would destroy the mayor’s livelihood—what choice did Javert have? Much as he wanted to allow Madeleine the happiness he saw now in his face, there was his long-term happiness to think about, as well. If he had grown to care for Fantine, this affection could easily render him short-sighted. What he required now was good counsel from someone who could be trusted, and that was a service Javert could render him.

Deep in thought, he turned and walked away, making short work of the spice cake as he went. 

His departure provoked a chorus of “Au revoir, Monsieur le loup!” 

As he strode up the street, he tried not to think of Madeleine’s hands—worse still, of Madeleine’s lips, and the way they had brushed Fantine’s fingertips. Subconsciously, he ran his thumb over his own fingertips, trying not to imagine what it would have felt like.

As part of the heavy edits in Chapter 4, which continued in this chapter to an extent, what was formerly three shorter chapters (4, 5, + 6) became two longer ones. So, the overall chapter count has dropped to 11, but the amount of content has actually increased rather than diminished.

Brick dialogue:All of Madeleine’s spiel about jet (starting with “Here is the whole matter”, and ending when he gets interrupted at “four livres the p—”) is straight from 5.9.3

French:“Toujours en train de faire ces actes de bonté.” – “Always doing these good deeds.”“Maman, il faut nourrir Monsieur le tigre” – Fantine already translates for you: “Monsieur le tigre must be fed”“Ça te fait rigoler, ma petite?” – again, Fantine has translated for you: “That makes you laugh, my little one?”“Pas nécessaire” – “Not necessary” (pretty self-explanatory)“Tu vois?” [...] “Le regard d’un loup, n’est-ce pas?” – “You see? The look of a wolf, don’t you think?”

Javert confronts the mayor, laying out his deduction and his evidence.

A short chapter, but a very fun one! (At least, it was one of the most fun to write, for sure.)


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Javert readied himself for his upcoming appointment with the mayor. He would be assisting him in writing his next letter to the English philanthropist, so the meeting would be lengthier than his usual reports, which seldom took longer than a quarter of an hour.

He took special care to ensure his uniform was spotless, his boots polished, his hair neatly tied. He was nervous: he had not stopped thinking about the mayor’s infatuation with Fantine, and given that he would be alone with Madeleine for an extended period, this would be his best chance to bring it up.

On his way to the mairie, he agonised over how he might broach the topic. He need not have worried, however: upon entering the mayor’s office, he took one look at Madeleine and knew what his opening remark would be.

He closed the door, hung his hat and coat, laid aside his cane, and turned to face the mayor, who was busy rummaging in his desk drawer. 

He took a breath. “I believe that is a new waistcoat, Monsieur.” 

The waistcoat in question was of champagne-coloured silk, embroidered with a pattern of vines and flowers. It looked handsome indeed with the mayor’s forest-green tailcoat.

Madeleine looked up, and perhaps noting a hint of disapproval in Javert’s tone, replied somewhat defensively. "Yes, and what is your point?"

He withdrew a stick of red sealing-wax from the drawer, and shut it.

Javert folded his arms, and went up to the desk. “I am merely making an observation.” 

“I have never known you to make an observation without purpose, Inspector. Yes, it is a new waistcoat. What of it?” 

"Nothing, perhaps, but one may speculate."

"Surely not. What conclusions could one possibly draw from a new waistcoat?" 

"One must consider the fact in context, Monsieur. One must look at all the evidence. It is a thing I am accustomed to doing." 

"Dare I ask what other evidence you have considered, and to what end? You have not mixed me up with another convict, I hope?" He spoke lightly, but his expression held some worry. 

Javert saw fit to reassure him. "No, my suspicion is not related to any legal matter, Monsieur. If you are found guilty in this instance, you will have only yourself to answer to." He straightened up. 

Madeleine looked baffled and a little concerned. "What can he mean?" he said under his breath, then out loud, "I wish you would have out with it, then. Do not leave me in suspense; I cannot bear it."

"If I am not mistaken,” said Javert, stepping closer, “you carry also a faint odour of eau de cologne." 

Madeleine flushed. "I see no wrong in that," he muttered, "I thought it smelled pleasant.”

"Furthermore," Javert pressed on, "in recent times, you have been shaved by a barber, where previously you were accustomed to doing it yourself." He put up a hand to halt Madeleine's protestations. He was beginning to enjoy himself. "Denial is useless; I have eyes in my head, Monsieur: the shave is absolutely clean.” He had the impulse to take the mayor by the chin and turn his face for a full inspection; he reached out a hand but caught himself in time, and lowered it hastily. This was the mayor, not one of his usual suspects. “You have not a speck of red on your face," he resumed, without missing a beat, "where before you could not help nicking yourself somewhere. And commonly, you would miss a spot just there,” —he drew a finger along his own jawline to illustrate— “under the jaw and close to the ear."

"This is really too much, Inspector. I must object to such close scrutiny," Madeleine said weakly. His hand had risen subconsciously to the spot at his throat corresponding with the exact location described by Javert.

Javert spread his hands. "I am an inspector of police, Monsieur. It is second nature, and my duty besides."

"You vex me," Madeleine muttered, "but come quickly to your point, for mercy's sake."

"Are you quite certain, Monsieur? I have other observations still to relate."

"Spare me that, Javert," said the mayor in a tired voice.

Javert bowed. "As you wish, Monsieur. My conclusion is quite a natural one. When a gentleman begins, suddenly, to take such care in his grooming, what can he have in mind but matrimony?"

Madeleine raised his eyebrows, but kept his face neutral.

"Of course, for a man such as yourself, Monsieur le maire,” Javert went on, “it would be an ambition all too easily achieved. You are in possession of all three of the principal qualities sought after by a woman in search of a husband: you are well-respected, wealthy, and—as I have heard it said—pleasing to look upon. Humble though you may be, Monsieur, surely you are aware of your effect on the women of this town." He paused, examining the mayor. "How prettily you blush, Monsieur: you are crimson. At any rate, suffice it to say you are well admired, and could easily find a suitable bride, with no need for such a change in your habits. I posit, as well, that you are aware of the fact. It has hardly been a well-kept secret. Therefore, it can only be that you have a particular bride in mind. Yes, there is a woman you desire, Monsieur, and you have set out to win her. It is not difficult to guess who." 

He waited to see if Madeleine had anything to say for himself, but the mayor seemed to be struck speechless. 

Javert forged ahead. "Who else, mon pauvre Monsieur, but Fantine?" 

Madeleine looked shocked, and made to interject. 

"You would deny that too?" Javert said heatedly, before the mayor could get a word in edgewise. "Come off it! I am no fool.” His face had grown flushed as well. “I have seen the way you look at her. I hardly know where to begin with all the rest—those countless hours spent sitting at her bedside—next, chopping wood—not to mention your little outings...!" Javert sputtered. He took a breath. "I can see you are indignant. I know it is not for me to concern myself with such matters. I go too far, perhaps; I will accept any punishment you see fit for my transgression, but if I dare stray from propriety, it is for your sake, Monsieur: I do not know of any other man who might advise you in this matter. Perhaps—and I hope it is so—no one has yet observed what I have. But I could not stand by and say nothing. Love can blind a man to folly, Monsieur. So too can desire. However virtuous you may be, however intelligent, I do not believe you are immune to either." 

Madeleine swallowed. 

"Thus afflicted,” Javert went on, “you may act rashly. You may get some fool idea in your head, and you may very well see it through. I would not allow a blind man to wander off a precipice, Monsieur le maire, and it is in this spirit that I must urge you to reconsider,” he said passionately. “However much you might care for Fantine, you cannot pursue her, Monsieur, far less marry her. It is a mistake.” Javert was by now leaning over the desk, bringing his face close to Madeleine’s. “Worse, Monsieur, it is madness. It is a reckless, insensible—"

"Enough!" Madeleine broke in at last, leaping to his feet. He had been listening with a dazed look on his face, but had finally heard enough. "What utter nonsense, Javert! Fantine—Fantine is a dear friend to me, nearer now to a sister. Why, she could be my daughter! There are years enough between us: a quarter century at the least. My God, Javert. You astound me. Fantine! Really! You are utterly misguided. You must drop this fool notion."

"You cannot convince me otherwise, Monsieur,” said Javert haughtily, “the evidence speaks for itself. The wood chopping," he repeated. "The outings..." 

The mayor walked around the desk to stand at Javert’s side. He laid a hand on his shoulder. "Nothing I would not do for a sister—a niece—a daughter...!"

“Eating a cake from her hand…!” Javert could not help adding.

“To amuse a  child  ! Javert, for pity’s sake!” The mayor had now laid both of his hands on Javert’s shoulders, and was looking at him with something like fond exasperation.

Javert’s gaze dropped to his boots, and he thought for a long moment. The signs had seemed so clear. Yet the mayor was adamant. Madeleine would not lie about such a thing, would he?

“Truly, Monsieur? You are not…?”

“Not in the slightest,” said Madeleine.

Javert was having trouble laying aside his conviction. He did not dare trust the overwhelming relief that was already spreading through him. Eyeing the mayor suspiciously, he said at last, "Would you swear to it? I would rest easy, Monsieur, if..."

Madeleine’s mouth quirked a little, but he said firmly, "Yes, I swear it." His hands tightened on Javert’s shoulders. "There is nothing—nothing—approaching romantic love between myself and Fantine.” He shut his eyes. “Pardieu, the mere idea disturbs me."

Javert exhaled. "Je suis soulagé, Monsieur. I confess it has disturbed me too.”

Madeleine’s hands still rested on Javert’s shoulders. Another moment passed before he let them fall. "And for that matter,” he added, almost shyly, not quite meeting Javert’s eyes, “There is no other woman I plan to marry, either. There is no woman I—" He stumbled, then rephrased. "I do not plan to marry at all.” 

"That I find harder to believe," Javert mused. He leaned in, inhaling deeply. "Certainly, you are wearing eau de cologne, Monsieur." The smell was pleasant, in fact, subtle and with an earthiness to it that suited Madeleine well. He fought the urge to inhale again.

Madeleine folded his arms. "Perhaps it pleases me to wear eau de cologne."

"Who else does it please, Monsieur?" Javert said softly, half-taunting now. Insolent, to be sure, but they had grown close enough to allow for this sort of teasing from time to time. “Elle s’appelle comment?”

“You are utterly misguided,” said Madeleine again. “I have never yet been a bridegroom, Javert, and I am too old to start now. I have every intention of going to my grave a bachelor." 

Javert raised placating hands. "Very well, I am satisfied of your distaste for matrimony. However, I am beginning to think it is rather beside the point. You may never take a wife, Monsieur, that is true, but nor did Casanova." Javert raised his eyebrows. "You say you do not intend to marry: fine, you have convinced me—nevertheless, there is someone..." He searched Madeleine’s face.

Madeleine looked down for a long moment, and Javert thought he had prompted a confession at last. But when the mayor raised his head, he was no more forthcoming than before.

"If there were," he said in a tired voice, "it would be rather pathetic, would it not. At my age." He rubbed his clean-shaven face.

Javert opened his mouth to reply, but Madeleine winced and said, "No, do not answer that."

"Very well, Monsieur, but you know I could never think ill of you," Javert said gently.

"You are good to me, Javert,” Madeleine sighed. “But what has come over you?” He shook his head. “What is the meaning of these strange accusations? You say it is I who am preoccupied with thoughts of love and desire.” He met Javert’s eyes. “I say it is you.”

“Love, desire…” Javert waved a contemptuous hand, even as his heart threatened to thud through his ribcage. "Such accusations will never stick to a man like me. I am ill-suited for such things.” His mouth twitched. “Have you not heard, Monsieur? My heart is made of stone, or so it is said of me." 

"Coal is a stone," said Madeleine in a low voice, "and still it burns."

“Je suis soulagé” – “I am relieved”“Elle s’appelle comment?” – “What is her name?”

No Brick lines.

I had such a blast with the dialogue in this chapter! Let me know what you thought ♥️

Javert might have thought Madeleine was avoiding him, except that Madeleine was avoiding everyone else equally.

I can tell the holiday season is upon us, because I am suddenly much busier! Be forewarned (well actually, be belatedly warned) that updates will be more sporadic and spaced out until after Christmas. Still, I would be surprised if the whole thing isn’t posted by like, the end of January at the latest. And if it isn’t done by February, you can assume I’ve died. (That probably won’t happen though. If it does, know that my ghost is supremely annoyed I wasn’t able to finish posting this story.)


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Javert’s mind had been set at ease, and his relief was profound. He had little time to enjoy it, however: a new problem was quick to arise, and it also had to do with the mayor. (As a matter of fact, Javert could no longer remember a time before all his problems linked back to Madeleine.)

The trouble was that Madeleine was not himself. It had begun with a missed appointment. Javert had been scheduled to assist him yet again in his letter writing, as they had not managed to finish on the previous occasion: their confrontation about Fantine had proven a time-consuming distraction. However, Madeleine had cancelled this new appointment, and without giving a reason. This was strange, but then, the mayor was a busy man. Javert was sure he would reschedule. 

He did not. 

Fine: Javert would reschedule himself, then. He approached the mayor's secretary. 

"I'm terribly sorry, Monsieur l'inspecteur, but the mayor is not taking any new appointments," he was told. 

When at last Javert laid eyes on the mayor for the purpose of giving his report, it was only his training and discipline that kept him from gasping in alarm. Madeleine’s cravat was tied messily, his hair unkempt, his face shadowed with stubble and his eyes shadowed with dark circles. It was so marked a contrast from how he had appeared in their last meeting—he had passed so quickly from debonair to dishevelled—that Javert could only suspect heartbreak. To be sure, the mayor had vehemently denied any romantic attachment to Fantine, and so too had he denied any intention to marry, but he had not denied that he was in love. So there  had  been someone, after all. Javert sensed that he had been right in this respect, which did not please him as well it might have. Rather, it wounded. Perhaps it was because Madeleine looked so utterly forlorn that Javert could not help pitying him. 

He surveyed the mayor in dismay. 

"Mais Monsieur..." Javert said feebly. 

"What, Javert?" asked the mayor in an exhausted voice.

He wished to say,  What has happened to you, mon pauvre?  But he did not dare to. He could hardly speak ill of his superior's appearance, and thus his professionalism, even if it were done out of concern. 

So he bit his tongue and said, "Nothing, Monsieur," then gave his report with eyes averted.

 

***

 

Javert might have thought Madeleine was avoiding him, except that Madeleine was avoiding everyone else equally. His secretary murmured apologies and excuses as he turned people away from the mayor’s office.

Javert was unsettled. Without the mayor's company to look forward to, the days stretched out blankly before him. What had he done with himself before Madeleine had entered his life? He could not entirely remember. He had done his work; he had read edifying literature, which surely improved him even if it failed to entertain; he had allowed himself, on occasion, a pinch of snuff as a sole source of pleasure. Could that have been all? Could it be true that he had kept company with no one, that he had not known the pleasure of a kind word or a gentle touch?

At night, he lay awake in his cold room, staring absently at a sliver of moonlight that fell across the bed-post. He missed Madeleine keenly; his absence was a hollow inside Javert’s chest. It was normal, of course, that Javert should be concerned for the mayor’s welfare, but beneath that simple concern, he was dimly aware, lay something deeper and more desperate that he did not care to examine. 

He tamped down the growing turmoil of his own emotions, and considered the situation objectively: the mayor seemed to have fallen into some sort of depression, more serious than the one he had suffered during Fantine’s illness—and that, at least, had had a clear cause. This was both more acute and more mysterious. 

Madeleine felt things too deeply, Javert thought sadly; the depth of his empathy made him vulnerable; he was surprisingly fragile for such a strong and respectable man. Javert saw again, in his mind’s eye, Madeleine’s sleeping face, followed by the sad and exhausted expression he had worn in recent days. The hollow place in his chest ached like a pressed bruise. He cursed the faceless woman who must have broken Madeleine’s heart to leave him so bereft.  

Then Javert made up his mind: this could not go on. He would find a way to bring Madeleine back to himself. To determine how he might do that, he could see only one possible next step. 

He began to follow him.

 

***

 

Thus, Javert found himself out in the country in the middle of the night (it was perhaps ten o’clock), creeping along behind Madeleine at an ideal following distance, which came naturally to an experienced policeman like him.

It was by now mid-November, and a thin layer of snow coated the ground, amplifying the silence of the night.

Madeleine had set out on an evening walk more than an hour ago, and after restlessly traversing the streets of the town, he had wandered off into the fields and towards wilder country, with Javert trailing behind. 

Madeleine took a narrow, overgrown path through a stand of trees that stood dark and jagged in the night.

As Javert crept after him, ducking and dodging through branches and brambles, his hat was knocked from his head, and he felt something snag at the side of his hair. Stifling a curse, he caught the hat as it fell, then struggled silently against the accursed vegetation that had ensnared him, managing at last to wrench himself free—though, judging by the way it had hurt, not without leaving some of his hair behind. But there was no time to think about that. He forged ahead.

The path opened out into a small clearing, a white ellipse in the dark wood.

Here Madeleine stopped and looked up at the moon, which shone brilliantly upon the snow, its glow reflecting back off the ground; until after a moment a cloud drifted across and smothered it in shadow. Then Madeleine lowered his gaze. His shoulders drooped. He bowed his head, then laid his face in his hands. Everything in his posture spoke of despondency.

Javert had seen enough. He could not think what else to do, and his friend was in need, and he could not continue to watch without at least trying to ease his pain. Besides that, he was tired of creeping around after him.

He closed the distance between them. Stealth was instinctual; his step was light and quiet. It was not until he was almost level with Madeleine that the snow crunched underfoot and the mayor spun around with a sharp intake of breath.

“Javert,” he gasped, “Mon Dieu! How you surprised me—!” He laid a hand on his heart, letting his breathing steady. “Tu es silencieux comme le loup,” he said in a low tone. Then, realising his mistake, he added hastily, “Forgive me—I called you  tu . It is the lateness of the hour; there is something intimate in that.” He fixed Javert with an appraising look. "But what are you doing here?"

"I followed you."

"Ah!" said Madeleine. "Why?"

"You have been strange of late. I mislike it."

"I see," said Madeleine, a little sadly. "Your suspicions have been roused once more, then. You thought to find me embroiled in something untoward. Well, I am sorry to disappoint you. I come here only to stand under the stars and breathe a little clean air, which a man may do, I hope, at his discretion."

"Forgive me, Monsieur. That was not what I meant."

"Was it not?" said Madeleine, a little sharply. "Why, then, do I find you dogging my tracks by moonlight, like a wolf on the prowl?"

"Monsieur, forgive me, it was not suspicion that drove me."

Madeleine was not appeased. He went on in a heated voice. "What, then, Javert? Why can I not so much as take a walk without turning to find you breathing down my neck?"

"It is only as I said, Monsieur," Javert said helplessly. "You have been strange these past days—"

"Strange!” Madeleine broke in. “Yes, you would say that, wouldn’t you? Nothing escapes your notice: ce chien de chasse toujours en arrêt sur moi,” he muttered, then said more loudly, “I did not realise it ran afoul of any laws to be strange, as you call it; nonetheless, I am sorry to have so disturbed you, Inspector." 

There was a sharp edge to his voice that, many months ago, Javert would have relished. Now, it only hurt.

"It is you who have been disturbed, I think,” Javert ventured. In trying to hide how deeply the mayor’s harsh tone had cut, he spoke in a more clipped manner himself. “Something has upset you. I wish to know what it is." 

"Very well, then, you may escort me back to the station and I will give you my full statement,” Madeleine retorted. “Will that appease you? Or must you interrogate me right here?" His eyes glittered in the darkness; his shoulders were tense, his hands balled into fists. 

Javert was struck dumb. It occurred to him that they were arguing, which could not have been more contrary to his intention.

"For God's sake," Madeleine cried, "what more must I do to prove to you that I have changed?"

"Changed?" said Javert sharply. At once, Madeleine's face closed, as if he realised he had said the wrong thing. But Javert scarcely noticed. He went on in an impassioned tone: "Yes, you have changed! For days you have scarcely spoken a word to anyone, you refuse all appointments, you go about with a stony aspect and a distracted air. Your face is unshaven, your hair is untidy, and it is plain to see you have not slept! In short, you have not been yourself. So what am I to think, Monsieur, how am I to react when I see you set off alone into the woods in the dead of night? I thought—I thought you might pose a danger to yourself. At the least, I thought you might not wish to be alone. I see now that I was mistaken, both in my haste and in my foolish assumption that my company could offer you anything in the way of consolation," he said bitterly. “Forgive me, Monsieur, for I had thought—” his jaw worked noiselessly for a moment. "No matter. If my presence brings you such discomfort, the fault can only be mine. I have committed a grievous error; I have done my best to make it up to you; I have let it be known, I hope, that you have my utmost loyalty. If it cannot suffice, I only wish you would simply dismiss me, Monsieur; it is what I deserve, and it sounds as if it would put you at ease. I cannot force your hand now any more than I could before; I can only await your instruction with some impatience. I have arms. I will till the soil; it makes no difference to me. Good night." He turned to go.

"Wait!" Madeleine grabbed hold of Javert's arm to detain him, and his was not a grip that could be easily shaken. "Truly?” he asked. “You were concerned for me?” All the anger had drained from the mayor’s face, which now held an expression both astonished and chastened. He searched Javert’s eyes. “Can that be all?" he added in a wondering voice, half-shy.

Javert bowed, to the extent that he could, with Madeleine gripping his arm. "I am duty-bound to serve you, Monsieur le maire,” he said curtly. “Your concerns are my concerns."

“Ah! Of course,” said Madeleine, “duty-bound.” He looked amused. 

"I amuse you, Monsieur," said Javert, in a tone closer to hopeful than offended.

"Yes. You vex and you amuse me, Javert. And you surprise me." He paused, loosening his grip on Javert's arm but not removing his hand. "Dutiful though it may be, it is nonetheless kind of you to concern yourself on my behalf. Thank you, Javert. I will not trouble you with my problems—God knows they are trivial enough—but you are right that I have been out of sorts. I had not realised it bothered you. I will try to improve."

"I too have trivial problems, Monsieur. Why, as I was following you here, I snagged my hair on a branch and it has caused a fearsome tangle. If your problem is more trivial than that, Monsieur, I should not wish to hear about it."

Madeleine smiled. He looked at Javert, then down at his boots. "I had once thought you a humourless man,” he mused, “but you are witty. I cannot believe there was a time I did not know that." He glanced away for a moment, then resumed. "Very well, if my chief inspector commands me to speak, I shall do so. You will think me foolish, but so be it.” He hesitated only briefly before continuing. “Cosette has left my home and my care,” he said with a long sigh. “She has gone to live permanently with Fantine. There: that is all, absurd though it must seem to you. Mother and child together under one roof: that is as it should be. Still it is a blow, Javert; I cannot help it. She brought such light when she came into my keeping, and it went with her when she left. Perhaps I would not take it so hard, had I anyone else—forgive me, Javert, it is quite ridiculous. These are the ramblings of a daft old man."

But Javert had grown serious. "Monsieur, you speak of loneliness. I know something of that."

"As do I,” replied Madeleine, with a long sigh. “I have been alone for more than half my years. It is not as if I am unaccustomed to it. But to have had a little love come into one's life, only to have it leave again so soon—that is harder, for then one feels the lack."

"On that I have no authority to comment, Monsieur. I have known nothing of the sort, neither arriving nor departing."

"You have always been alone, Javert?"

"Always."

Madeleine bit his lip. "That is hard."

"I thought you said it was not as hard."

"Perhaps they are both hard," said Madeleine.

Javert gave a slow nod. 

Then they fell quiet, and looked up at the stars.

After a long, contemplative silence, Javert began hesitantly, “I hope you do not mind my saying, Monsieur…” —he glanced at Madeleine and received an encouraging nod, so he continued— “but I often look to the stars for comfort, when I know not where else to turn.” He tilted his face back towards the sky, his eyes tracing the paths of constellations he knew by heart. “They are always there, fixed in the firmament, offering their light in the midst of darkness.” His voice was barely above a murmur. “Never changing, never faltering.” He tugged self-consciously at his whiskers. “There is solace, I think, in that.” 

He was not aware that as he spoke about the stars, Madeleine was looking at him as if he had hung them himself. 

When Javert had finished, Madeleine let out a huff of breath: a sound of mingled amusement and disbelief. “Javert,” he said, “Why on earth should I mind your saying that?”

Javert shrugged. “You did not ask.”

Madeleine snorted. “That has not stopped you in the past.”

The full moon, which had emerged at last from behind the clouds, illuminated the mayor’s wry smile. “I seem to recall your having quite a lot of opinions on my romantic inclinations, and all of them unsolicited,” Madeleine added.

Javert’s face burned. He looked down, ashamed. “Forgive me, Monsieur. It was only due to—”

“It is quite alright,” Madeleine said quickly. “I was only teasing you.” His voice was gentle. As his gaze drifted over Javert’s face, newly moon-drenched, he seemed to notice something at the side of Javert's head, just beneath the brim of his hat. "You said you were snagged by a twig," he said, reaching out to touch his hair. "It seems the snagging has been mutual. You have taken a piece of it with you." Perfunctorily, he removed Javert's hat and handed it to him. "Hold still," he commanded.

Javert obeyed, though he was not sure he could have moved if he had wanted to. He stayed fixed in place as Madeleine leaned in close to see through the darkness, his fingers working gently at the tangle. Here was another of these moments of closeness that Javert could hardly bear—the brush of Madeleine's fingertips, the warmth of Madeleine's breath—it was excruciating. Madeleine’s nearness set the air athrum.

At last, Madeleine eased the twig free, with such gentleness that Javert hardly felt the tug. Javert touched his hair, which was still in a dreadful tangle, and was coming free from its ribbon. He deemed it unsalvageable, undid the bow holding it back, and let it down. Holding the ribbon in his teeth, he finger-сombed the snarl back into submission. He took the ribbon in hand again, but before he could tie his hair back once more, he became aware of Madeleine’s eyes on him.

Madeleine said, "With your hair loose like that—" He hesitated. "You are quite—quite—" As he spoke, his hand had drifted upward, as if of its own accord, and hovered in the air between them, fingers outstretched. He seemed unable to finish the sentence. 

Javert snorted. “Unkempt?” he supplied.

His attention was then distracted: he had just noticed a dark glimmer on Madeleine’s extended fingertips, which seemed to be—he seized Madeleine’s hand in both of his, raising it to his face to see through the darkness.

"You are bleeding,” he said at last.

Madeleine inclined his head. "I am afraid the twig was possessed of some rather formidable thorns," he said in an apologetic tone. "It is of no concern."

Javert felt Madeleine's hand quiver in his. The beads of blood on his fingertips shook and spread. Javert was seized by a sudden lunatic urge to put each of Madeleine's fingers in his mouth and suck the blood from them. He swallowed and looked up sharply.

Their eyes met.

Madeleine drew a breath. "Le loup aux yeux affamés," he said in a low voice. "Tu me regardes comme...you look at me as if you wished to devour me. So be it. What are you waiting for? I bare my throat to you." And he lifted his chin.

Before Javert could think about what he was doing, he had laid his hands on either side of Madeleine's exposed throat. Madeleine closed his eyes. Javert felt the rapid beat of the other man's pulse under his palms, the rough scrape of stubble against his fingers. He felt Madeleine swallow and saw his lips part. 

Then hunger overcame sense, and Javert fell upon him.

There had been girls in his youth, their soft mouths yielding under his. It had never been unpleasant, exactly, and yet, he had seen other men undone by such girls and such kisses, neither of which had ever held sway over him. Had every woman in France forsworn the touch of Javert, his life would have gone on in much the same way.

But now he was kissing Madeleine, and his hands were in Madeleine’s hair, and his tongue was in Madeleine's mouth, and his heart—he could almost swear it—beat in Madeleine’s breast. He was lost. He was undone. He—

They came up for air.

"Monsieur," Javert panted, "vous—"

"I rather think  tu  would be appropriate at this juncture," Madeleine interjected, breathing hard.

"C-comme tu veux, Monsieur," Javert managed, having forgotten what he had originally wanted to say.

Madeleine grinned at the appended  Monsieur . "It is a start," he said. "Perhaps—if you kiss me again—we may progress to calling one another by our Christian names."

Javert had not heard anything after "again", and Madeleine's last word was half-stifled.

When at last they pulled apart once more, Madeleine said breathlessly, and with a hint of hesitation, "Je—Maxime. Je m'appelle Maxime."

"René," said Javert, giving his name in return.

They looked at one another as if for the first time.

Some thoughts....in no particular order....

1. Have I overused Javert’s hair at this point? Probably. Still, I have no regrets.

2. Giving Javert and “Madeleine” first names was SO hard (ESPECIALLY JAVERT). Nothing struck me as super bang-on, so I essentially just went through the entire Wikipedia list of French men’s names and picked the two that sounded the least wrong. For Javert I had a little shortlist (don’t ask me what else was on it, I don’t actually remember) and then I pulled up a picture of Philip Quast’s Javert and a picture of Anthony Perkins’s Javert (whom I would argue are the two main Javerts people picture when they picture Javert), and then I looked at each picture and focused intently on each name and then went with the one that kinda seemed like it MIGHT suit both of these key Javerts. Hopefully my weird process worked and you don't hate it. If you do....I apologise.

3. It felt cathartic to let Valjean get a bit snippy with Javert. 😆 I feel like he needed to get that out. And then they got to make out about it, so, good for them.

4. When Javert startles Valjean, Valjean accidentally calls him "tu", then corrects himself and switches back to "vous". You may recall that Javert does something similar with Fantine in an earlier chapter. I have a feeling that, as fans of Les Mis, you will generally have a decent understanding of French pronouns even if you don't speak French yourself.

However, maybe it's a good idea for me to offer a bit of clarification in case I'm wrong about this? Because I can see how that might be confusing. In a nutshell and very roughly, "tu" is an informal pronoun, which you would use with people you have a close relationship with (friends, family, and yes, romantic partners). However, if you say "tu" to someone with whom you don't have that kind of relationship, and in a negative context, that would be a sign of disrespect. So, Javert calls Fantine "tu" because he still doesn't fully respect her in that scene, whereas Valjean calls Javert "tu" ("Tu es silencieux comme le loup") because he's been taken by surprise and has accidentally betrayed that he feels closer to him than he might be ready to admit at this point.

He then does it again later in the chapter, when he says: "Tu me regardes comme...you look at me as if you wished to devour me." Since I switch to English without further specifying what pronoun he uses in the rest of the sentence, it's up to you whether he corrects himself again this time, or sticks with tu...! Actually, it's not even clear that it's a mistake at all this time: maybe he did it on purpose? I don't know the answer. That's your call.

 

Brick lines:- “Ce chien de chasse toujours en arrêt sur moi” – very nearly a direct quote from I.VII.III, except that I omitted the word “affreux”, because that felt a bit too harsh on poor Javert at this point :’) (see below for translation)- “I have arms. I will till the soil; it makes no difference to me” – from the Punish Me Monsieur Le Maire scene of course, I.VI.II

 

French:- “Mais Monsieur…” – “But Monsieur…”- “Tu es silencieux comme le loup.” – “You are silent as the wolf.”- “Ce chien de chasse toujours en arrêt sur moi” – “That hunting-dog always making a point at me”- “Le loup aux yeux affamés [...] Tu me regardes comme…” – “The wolf with hungry/famished eyes [...] You look at me as if…”- “Comme tu veux” – “As you wish”- “Je m’appelle” – “My name is”

Javert is plagued by doubts and requires some…convincing. [eyes flicker to M rating]

*Pointing at total chapter count, which observant readers will note has increased from 11 to 13*

Are you guys seeing this?! It fucking got longer again! How does it keep doing that!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Javert awoke from a deep sleep. He was alone and in his own bed, as always; in his own room. His room was exactly the same as it had always been, spare and ordinary; unchanged in its spareness and its ordinariness. 

And yet, images from the night before flashed through his mind, as if from one of those tales collected by the Brothers Grimm: a forest clearing dusted with snow—a cluster of thorns caught in a snarl of silvered hair—a bead of blood on a fingertip—a rough voice whispering:  le loup aux yeux affamés .

His head felt as if it were full of cotton. He licked his lips. 

Had he really kissed Madeleine last night?

He recalled it so vividly, so viscerally. It had felt so real, but now—with the feeble winter sun filtering in his window, with the early light falling wanly over the familiar contours of his bedroom—it seemed insane. It seemed impossible. 

It seemed far more likely that he had dreamed an especially vivid dream, or suffered an attack of madness—that his lack of sleep had caught up to him and produced this delusion. It had not felt like a dream at the time, and at forty-three he had thought himself capable of telling the difference between dreams and real life, but he simply did not see how it could be otherwise. 

As he lay there in his bed, awash in that cold grey light and thinking of Madeleine’s mouth pressed to his, he could no longer deny that he wanted him—that he had wanted him for a long time—but he was unable to think of it as anything other than an impossible, pathetic desire he had done his utmost to suppress. It must be remembered that Javert had never before been shown anything in the way of love or affection, that he had not thought it possible for him, least of all from a man who was so entirely his superior in every way imaginable, from employment to wealth to social status.

He sat up in bed and forced himself to consider the possibility that the kiss had not been a dream or a hallucination. If that were so, then he had been shockingly out of line! To make such advances on his superior! For had he not initiated the kiss? He had. He blushed to think of it: he had put his hands on Madeleine, on his throat, then he had kissed him on the mouth. He, a police spy; Madeleine, a magistrate! And both of them men. He rather hoped, at this point, that it had been a delusion, for how would he explain himself if it were not?

He laid his face in his hands. For a long moment, he sat there in the darkness of his own palms, despairing of his situation. Then, with mingled bravery and resignation, he got up and began to dress.

“A dream,” he muttered as he pulled on his shirt. “I am sure it was a dream,” he said to himself as he did up his trousers. “God help me if it was not,” he sighed as he reached for his boots. 

 

***

 

For two days, Javert succeeded in avoiding the mayor almost entirely, and in avoiding his gaze when he could not avoid his person. (He was, however, gratified to note, from a safe distance, that the mayor seemed to have recovered from his period of melancholy.) 

Then—

"Inspector," said Madeleine, intercepting him outside the mairie. "May I have a word in my office?"

Somewhat dejectedly, Javert followed him in. Madeleine shut the door behind him. He gestured to the coat rack, so Javert obediently removed his coat and hat.

The mayor sat down at his desk. Javert stood before him, back straight, arms held rigidly at his sides. He could feel Madeleine watching him. He stared intently at a spot of wall just past the mayor's left ear.

After a long silence, Madeleine said, "Come! You will not look me in the eye."

Javert’s gaze shifted from the wall to the floor. He examined the sheen on his own immaculately polished boots. He cleared his throat, but could think of nothing to say, so said nothing.

"Are you afraid of what you may find there?" Madeleine said. "Or what I may find in yours?” 

Though Javert did not look up, he could feel the intensity of Madeleine’s gaze. He swallowed. 

“Might I read there again what I read before?” Madeleine asked softly. “It is this that frightens you?"

Javert remained mute, his stomach in knots.

"Of course," Madeleine went on, "a wolfish glint that appears by moonlight may not be discernible in the day. One might be persuaded that it was only a trick of the light, a trick of the night. And all that followed... Ce n'était qu'une folie, n'est-ce pas? Ou un rêve? That is how it feels to me: like a strange dream. Did you think you dreamed it, Javert? Or is it I who dream?" Madeleine sighed. "Still you say nothing. Perhaps it has been a madness all my own, though I had thought it shared." He was quiet for a moment, then muttered, "If I could but look you in the eyes, I would know."

He stood and went to Javert, who still could not meet his gaze, preferring to stare fixedly at his boots.

Gently but insistently, Madeleine lifted Javert's down-turned chin and angled his face so that Javert could not help but meet his eyes. The effect was instant. Javert’s breath caught; a spark leapt; the room melted away. 

"It is as I thought," breathed Madeleine. "And you are wicked, René, for letting me doubt it."

Madeleine kissed him.

Suddenly what had seemed so impossible earlier became incredibly simple. His doubt had been unfounded: he had not dreamed then, and did not dream now, and what had been right in the dark was right, as well, in the day. 

To think he had almost let this escape him! This: Madeleine’s lips parting under his, Madeleine’s hand on his chest, the feel of him, the smell of him so near—to think he could have let this slip away.

He did not know what  this  was, but that did not matter. It had no name, and needed none. It was brand new, had not existed before him and Madeleine and would not exist after. It was particular to them. They were inventing it together.

Javert took Madeleine's face in his hands and kissed him more heatedly. His body thrummed with the need to be closer, closer, closer; he pressed himself against Madeleine, driving him backwards—he felt a jolt and realised he had the mayor backed up against the desk. It stirred the side of him that took pleasure in chase and capture. 

He bit down on Madeleine's lower lip and felt him half sigh, half gasp in response. A surge of heat rushed through him; his pulse quickened, then throbbed between his legs as the kiss deepened again. 

He fumbled with Madeleine’s cravat and tugged at his collar to expose a slice of bare neck, which he bit at, then kissed, lingering, sucking; breathing in his scent all the while. 

Hardly conscious of what he was doing, he moved his hips against Madeleine’s. He was not wearing his long coat; his trousers were well-fitted: his physical response was evident. After receiving a delicious moan from Madeleine, he repeated the motion, and felt Madeleine’s own body respond. He kissed him with even greater fervour and buried his fingers in Madeleine’s hair as he continued to move against him. He was as a flint-stone struck against steel: with each contact, a shower of sparks passed through him. He gasped into Madeleine's mouth.

After a moment, Madeleine’s hands, which had been on his back, trailed downward and grasped him by the buttocks, pulling him in with a growl. This was more than Javert could withstand: he gasped and buried his face in Madeleine’s neck as he was overcome. Madeleine’s strong arms were around him as the aftershocks of pleasure slackened his limbs. He drooped against the mayor for a moment, catching his breath. 

Javert’s fingers found the ridge of Madeleine’s collarbone through his shirt and traced along it for a moment, before trailing downward to grasp at his trousers, making him suck in a breath.

“If I may speak plainly, Monsieur—” he said in a low voice, then, putting his mouth close to Madeleine’s ear, he whispered in no uncertain terms what he wanted to do. 

Madeleine’s eyes widened almost comically, and Javert did not miss the flicker of amazement that broke through the flush of desire on the mayor’s face: perhaps he had not expected such forwardness from the man he knew as austere, and who only minutes earlier, could not even look him in the eye. But Javert had never been one to mince words, and now that his doubts had been lifted, he brought the same honesty and directness to the current situation as he did to all other matters.

In response to Javert’s whispered words, Madeleine swallowed and made a strangled noise that Javert could only interpret as a yes, so he fell to his knees before the mayor, who still stood with his back against the desk. 

Javert undid the straining buttons on Madeleine’s trousers and drawers, and drew him out slowly. He took a moment to enjoy the sight before him: the mayor, still dressed in his fine waistcoat and tail-coat, still very nearly the picture of dignity, but hard for him, bared for him.

He bent his head and began almost reverently, with the softest touches of lips and tongue, drawing out a sigh and a whimper before he showed the mercy he had been taught and gave himself over to his task in full. His hands were on Madeleine’s hips, then on his backside; Madeleine’s hands were in his hair, first stroking, caressing, then gripping—painfully tight, but Javert did not slow. It felt good to be treated roughly. 

Then Madeleine gasped; his hands froze, fingernails digging into Javert’s scalp, and Javert’s mouth filled. Then the vice grip relaxed. Javert swallowed and leaned back, and the mayor’s hands moved around to caress his face as they both caught their breath.

Javert reached out to do up the mayor’s trousers, just as Madeleine said, “I will help you fix your hair.” 

After they had finished tidying themselves and each other, Madeleine was the first to speak. 

“You have always seemed so reserved—so remote,” he said in a hoarse voice, “one would hardly think it possible. Mais c'est vrai: tu es sauvage.”

"I am sure I never was before," Javert said in a low voice. "It is your doing, Monsieur."

"I thought I told you not to call me that. Not when we are alone."

"Perhaps you did, Monsieur."

"You are teasing me."

Javert's mouth quirked.

"When will I see you again?" Madeleine asked softly.

Javert drew his watch from his pocket and consulted it. "In two hours. That is assuming you still plan to keep your appointment at the police station. You were to come inspect my men."

"I meant, when will I see you again...like this." The question was almost shy.

"Whenever you wish it," Javert murmured. "I am at your service, Monsieur." His eyes lingered on Madeleine's mouth. 

Madeleine tilted his chin upward, and Javert felt himself drawn in like a magnet. Their lips brushed.

There was a knock at the door. They leapt apart.

"One moment," Madeleine called out in a voice much calmer than his expression, as Javert stumbled across the room and thrust his arms hurriedly through his coat sleeves, thanking heaven for the long heavy coat and its powers of concealment. It was not until he had left the building that he noticed he had buttoned it up lopsided.

So here it is…my first smut. :D A milestone. Hope it was enjoyable.

As always, comments are very appreciated!

French:“Ce n'était qu'une folie, n'est-ce pas? Ou un rêve?” – “It was but a folly, was it not? Or a dream?”“Mais c'est vrai: tu es sauvage.” – “But it’s true: you are wild.” (“sauvage” is a cognate to “savage”)

No brick dialogue in this chapter.

What if the old men explored each other's bodies

Didn't think I would have the chance to post another chapter until next week, but the window of opportunity has presented itself and I am seizing it.

P.S. This chapter puts us over 29k words, with four chapters still to go. It's funny because when I first started posting, the entire "final" draft was 27k words....


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


It was after dark. Javert had come to Madeleine's chambers, slipping quietly in without knocking. Madeleine’s housekeeper had already been sent home for the night, but it was best to be cautious.

Javert had been curious to see where Madeleine lived, given the outlandish rumours passed about by the townsfolk: his quarters were said to be decorated with such morbidities as skulls and winged hourglasses. In actuality, the place turned out to be very plain; simply furnished and papered roughly. The mantel was entirely bare, and looked rather forlorn. It was no nicer a dwelling than Javert's own, and surely Madeleine deserved better—still, he had always been a humble man.

Madeleine had been seated in a chair by the fire, but he rose when Javert entered.

Javert shut the door soundly and paused there for a moment, his hand still on the doorknob, as his eyes were caught and held by Madeleine’s. Then he crossed the room in little more than three long strides, and was kissing Madeleine before the other man could speak. 

When they broke apart, Javert gasped, “Monsieur, I have wanted—”

“I know,” said Madeleine in so low a tone that it was little more than a rumble. He pulled Javert back in and kissed him again for a long moment before whispering in his ear, “and do not call me that.” 

He undressed Javert slowly as they kissed, first divesting him of his greatcoat (much as he had done on a rainy day some weeks before), then working steadily through the remaining layers, laying aside his waistcoat, pulling the ribbon from his hair and unbuttoning his shirt, undoing the fastening on his trousers, taking his time, making every motion deliberate, all the while kissing him deeply, until at last Javert stood panting in his small clothes, his hair loose over his shoulders, face flushed, lips wet, eyes wild. This was when Madeleine, still fully dressed, pulled away to look at him. 

Excruciating, this long cold moment without Madeleine’s touch—to be so exposed and in disarray, to have been unravelled so methodically and so completely, to be made to crave so keenly and be left wanting. Yet when he met Madeleine’s gaze, he found no taunt there, only softness, and he wondered how he could have expected anything else from this man, from those eyes. There was something in that look that stole his breath, for never in his life had he been looked at in such a manner, looked at as if—as if—

It was only much later that he was able to put a word to it; it was so unfamiliar to him.  Admired  . Yes, Madeleine had stood back to  admire  him, Madeleine had looked at him as if he could not help looking at him, as if he were something rare and fleeting and spectacular; a comet, a meteor shower, an eclipse of the moon. It was only after looking at him in this way for a long moment that Madeleine stepped closer once more. He raised a hand to Javert's face, and with a single finger traced the outline of his flushed lips, then the curve of his jawline, the recess of his throat and the hard press of his Adam's apple, the ridge of his collarbone. Javert shut his eyes as the sweep of that fingertip set every nerve singing in its wake, the whole of his consciousness folded into the shifting point of skin that fell under the whorl of Madeleine's fingerprint. The touch was so light it was almost painful. He let out a whimper that he did not, at first, recognise as his own. It was a sound that might have been made by a dog left waiting for the stroke of its master's hand.

"Shh," Madeleine whispered soothingly, before reaching out at last to touch him where the front of his drawers pulled taut, tracing with light fingers around the outline of the swelling, drawing out a gasp and a shudder, and only then, finally, was the rest of their clothing shed, with the exception of Madeleine’s shirt, which, as Javert would come to learn, he never removed at all. He would allow it to be unbuttoned, and he would allow Javert’s hands on his bare chest, but nothing further. For all Javert knew of such intimacies between men, perhaps this was typical. In truth, he gave it little thought. During those rendez-vous in Madeleine’s lodgings, little thought was given to anything but pleasure.

They were not what anyone would call young, but neither had taken a lover before, so perhaps it was not surprising that they behaved as young men do, who are caught in the throes of a first passion.  

In the early days of their affair, Javert, who had never before felt himself distracted from his duty, who had always been possessed of a single-minded focus, found himself mortifyingly incapable of keeping his concentration.

On one such occasion, he had come into the mayor’s office to give his report, and found himself stumbling over his words. Madeleine was all professionalism, listening patiently, but the directness of his gaze, the way his dark eyes seemed to pin Javert in place—it was too much to bear. He swallowed.

The trouble was that the day prior, he had had a lengthy appointment in the mayor’s office, and the thought of it was driving him to distraction; the memory, still so fresh, of being bent over that very desk, with the scent of paper and sealing-wax in the air and Madeleine’s solid, warm hand clamped down over his mouth. As the wave of pleasure had swelled within him, nearing its crest, Javert had reached out a shaking hand to steady the ink-well on the desktop, which had been threatening to topple. Then the wave broke over him, and he had clutched the ink-well for dear life as he was overcome. 

His eyes landed on that same ink-well now, its liquid becalmed, and it was all Javert could look at. He tripped over his sentence. He had not thought it possible for an ink-well to be so provocative, yet it was having a powerful effect on him. He was beginning to feel an uncomfortable tightness in his trousers, and he grew even more flustered. He tried to return his thoughts to the familiar territory of police work, tried to focus on what he was saying—something about the young pickpocket he had caught recently, and given a stern lecture and five francs, then sent on his way—but there was nowhere he could look without seeing either the ink-well or Madeleine, and even if he looked at his boots he could still smell that paper-and-wax smell of Madeleine’s office, with the subtle spice of warm rosewood as the sunlight filtered through the high windows and onto Madeleine’s desk, and this particular mingling of scents, too, had acquired a certain carnal association— 

Madeleine listened to Javert’s stammering with polite attention, giving nothing away, although Javert knew him well enough by now to detect a hint of coy amusement in his eyes. In Madeleine’s case, it may as well have been a smirk, and Javert took it as a challenge. 

As soon as he had finished speaking, he went to Madeleine, and kissed him fervently for a long moment before Madeleine pushed him back gently.

“I am to meet with a dignitary shortly,” Madeleine said by way of explanation, then added in a low tone, “Only think what state you will leave me in if we carry on like this.” 

Javert pushed his luck. “I rather like to think of it,” he breathed, and fell upon Madeleine once more.

Madeleine growled against his mouth, but did not defend himself in face of this renewed assault until Javert was halfway in his lap and biting down on his lower lip. Then Madeleine shoved him off so hard that he stumbled; this pleased him, who knew the mayor had forgotten himself, and used more force than he had intended to. 

“For mercy’s sake, Javert,” Madeleine panted. “Now we really must leave off.” His voice was ragged. “You are incorrigible. Get out of here, that I may—compose myself—before M. Simonnet arrives.” 

Javert bowed. “As you wish, Monsieur, only I hate to leave a job half-done,” he purred. “If I may be permitted to call upon you tonight—”

“Yes, yes, you know very well that you are permitted,” Madeleine hissed. “Now go!”

With a triumphant sweep of his greatcoat, Javert went.

On his way out of the mairie, he said with perfect composure to the mayor’s secretary, “By the by, Cheneau, Monsieur le maire will require a few minutes to prepare for his next appointment.”

 

***

 

Typically, after Javert entered Madeleine's lodgings of an evening, he hung up his coat and hat and left his cane by the door, then walked straight into Madeleine's arms.

That night, however, he had an inkling of trying a novel approach. There was something he wanted that he did not know how to ask for, and which the mayor’s forceful shove earlier in the day had made him yet more keenly aware of. He had an idea of how it might be achieved. 

And so, on this occasion, after entering the mayor’s quarters, he approached with a calm and collected air, and the straight-backed, military posture he usually adopted in his profession.

Madeleine rose, then started in astonishment when Javert dipped into a bow. 

"Bon soir, Monsieur," Javert said in a stern tone. "How might I be of service?" 

Madeleine shot him a quizzical look.

"You requested my presence here tonight, Monsieur," Javert said, addressing him with  vous . "How may I assist you?"

Madeleine was staring. He tried to catch Javert's eye, but Javert gazed studiously past him. 

Quite obviously, Madeleine had no idea what to make of the situation. "What are you doing?" he said at last.

"Why, only my duty, Monsieur le maire," said Javert in feigned surprise. 

"Why do you speak to me like that?" said Madeleine, sounding a little unnerved. 

"Monsieur le maire will forgive me, but I can hardly think of any other way I should address my superior." 

Madeleine stepped closer, tentative, looking Javert up and down. "Have I done something to upset you?" he asked, uncertain.

"Not at all, Monsieur, although I fear I am upsetting you," said Javert hopefully.

"You have certainly perplexed me," said Madeleine, frowning at him. "You are strange tonight. I do not know what game you are playing at." He hesitated, then added, "I should like to kiss you, but I am no longer sure you would allow it." 

Javert gritted his teeth. "It should be of no consequence what I would allow. You are my superior. Take what you will from me."

Madeleine looked concerned. "I would never take what is not given freely. Surely you must know that? René, if you no longer wish to—"

"Oh, for—” A flash of annoyance broke through Javert’s carefully constructed facade. He met Madeleine's eyes at last. "You understand nothing,” he hissed.

"You explain nothing!" Madeleine protested, frustration creeping into his tone. 

Javert was gratified. " Now  I have upset you, Monsieur," he said in a tone of quiet triumph. "How am I to atone for the insult?"

Madeleine ran a hand through his hair. "What the devil has gotten into you tonight?"

"Will you tolerate such impertinence, Monsieur le maire? Will you let your subordinate speak to you in such a manner?" Javert said in a low tone.

"It is as though you were doing it deliberately," Madeleine mused to himself. "You goad me, just as you used to do. That was when you suspected me of being…” He trailed off: perhaps he had forgotten the name. “Am I to believe you suspect me again?" He was quick to answer his own question with a shake of his head. "I do not think so: you would not be so obvious about it. Rather, it is as though—there is something you want from me, only I do not know what it is, and you will not speak plainly." He sighed. "Forgive me, but I tire of such games. I wish only to do this." 

Madeleine stepped forward and kissed him, gently, tentatively. Javert returned the kiss with a roughness that took Madeleine by surprise, then broke it off abruptly.

"Is that the best you can do?" Javert growled.

Madeleine looked taken aback. Javert leaned in again, so that their faces were only inches apart.

"After I kept you waiting? After the—state—I left you in this morning?" he said softly. "Do not think it escaped my notice,  Monsieur. " His eyes lingered on Madeleine's mouth. “Little does.”

Madeleine made to close the distance, his hand reaching for Javert's cheek. Javert stepped backward ever so slightly, so that Madeleine had to step forward. He allowed Madeleine to kiss him again. This time it was more heated.

Again Javert broke the kiss. "You have hungered for this all day, Monsieur le maire," he murmured in Madeleine's ear. "Why pretend otherwise?" 

"I am not—" Madeleine turned his head, trying to find Javert's mouth again.

Again, Javert danced backward. "Pretending, no—perhaps not. But you are holding back."

"Holding back?" Madeleine sounded annoyed. He stepped forward again. "You are the one who keeps—" He managed to brush his lips against Javert's, to taste for a moment the heat of his breath, before Javert stepped again just out of reach.

"For God's sake," said Madeleine gruffly, lunging forward, "would you have me chase you around the room?" His kiss, this time, was rough and urgent. 

When Javert pulled away again after a moment, Madeleine let out a low growl of frustration that heated Javert's blood.

"You would not have to chase me," said Javert in a low tone, "if you did not keep letting me get away." He stepped backward again, and ran up against the wall at last. 

Madeleine, whose eyes were now ablaze with frustration and desire, pinned him there with the weight of his body and kissed him fiercely, open-mouthed, his powerful hands holding Javert's face still, so that Javert could not have moved if he had wanted to—and he most certainly did not want to. 

When they broke apart this time, it was for breath, which the kiss had stolen from them both. Madeleine bit at Javert's lower lip, panting, his hands tugging through Javert's whiskers and sliding down to his neck. He ground his hips into Javert's, and without seeming to realise what he was doing, he tightened his hands around Javert's throat. Javert made a choked sound. 

Madeleine seemed to come to his senses, removing his hands at once, a look of horror spreading across his face. 

"Good God," he gasped, " I am sorry. I—"

Javert cut in. "A mayor does not apologise to a police spy," he panted. 

Madeleine started to lean back, meaning to free Javert from the barrier of his weight.

Javert grabbed him by the cravat. "Don't you dare," he hissed. "Not when you have me right where you want me."

Madeleine's eyes widened. Something had clicked into place at last. 

" This  is what you wanted," he said. "Can that be?" 

He removed Javert's hands from his cravat as easily as he might have broken the grip of a child, and, overcoming a slight hesitation, pinned him to the wall by the wrists. 

Javert twisted in Madeleine's grip, but it was rock-solid. Madeleine again leaned his weight against Javert, and kissed him hard.

"This is what you wanted," he said again, into Javert's ear, as his right hand trailed down to grasp at him through his trousers, while his left hand gripped Javert's wrists. Javert moaned. 

"Admit it," said Madeleine, his fingers moving teasingly. 

"Yes," Javert gasped.

"Tell me what you want," Madeleine commanded. “Tell me, and perhaps I will oblige.”

"I want you to—" Javert’s breath stalled as Madeleine switched from tracing with his fingers to pressing with the heel of his hand.

"Yes?"

"Take me,” Javert said breathlessly, “Monsieur le maire.” 

Madeleine made a deep humming sound, as if considering the request. “That is what you wish?” He ran his hand lightly over Javert’s straining trousers, as if trying to smooth out a wrinkle in a bedsheet. His other hand released Javert's wrists only to descend upon his neck. 

"Yes," said Javert desperately.

Madeleine’s hand tightened around Javert's throat. “Convince me,” he said.

"Please," Javert managed. It was all he could choke out.

"Speak up," said Madeleine in a soft but dangerous tone, "People are in the habit of talking aloud to me." 

With deft fingers, he unfastened Javert’s trousers and touched him through the fabric of his drawers.

"Please—" Javert rasped, as loud as he could manage through the pressure on his throat.

"Please, what?" His right hand ever busy, Madeleine undid the buttons on the drawers as well.

Madeleine’s other hand remained tight about his neck, but at the same time, Javert could feel the careful withholding in his grasp. He had the thought that his life was literally in Madeleine’s hand; that he was utterly within Madeleine’s power—a minute tightening in that powerful grip and the breath would be crushed out of him. Javert was not a weak man himself, but compared to Madeleine, he was positively fragile. Nothing could have been more intoxicating.

"Please—Monsieur—" He shuddered. “T—” He let out a choked moan as the questing fingers of Madeleine’s right hand found bare flesh to stroke. “Take me,” he managed at last.

He was not made to ask again.

 

***

 

Once, as they were getting dressed, Madeleine murmured, in an almost matter-of-fact tone, “This will end badly for me.” 

He sat down on the bed, having done up his trousers, and reached for his shoes.

Javert had been buttoning his shirt. He paused, and looked up, the top of the shirt still agape. "What do you mean?" he said. “Why do you say that?”

"Because I know you,” said Madeleine, his eyes sweeping indulgently over the triangle of Javert’s bare skin left exposed. “You take no prisoners."

"On the contrary, Monsieur," replied Javert, who had still not broken the habit of addressing the mayor thus, and was in no hurry to, "I do so with some regularity.” His fingers began to move again. “Or did you forget I am your chief of police?" He did up the final button. 

"I cannot forget that," Madeleine sighed.

I've reread this chapter so many times over the course of editing that I'm now thoroughly sick of it. Hopefully with fresh eyes it was a more enjoyable experience, lol. And I, for one, am glad to have it done and dusted!

 

Brick lines:

- “his quarters were said to be decorated with such morbidities as skulls and winged hourglasses” — Not verbatim from the brick, but the concept is.Here’s the actual line from I.V.III: “Some people maintained that he was a mysterious person, and that no one ever entered his chamber, which was a regular anchorite’s cell, furnished with winged hour-glasses and enlivened by cross-bones and skulls of dead men!”

- "A mayor does not apologise to a police spy." — mimicking I.VI.II: "A mayor does not offer his hand to a police spy."

- “People are in the habit of talking aloud to me.” — Javert’s line from I.VIII.IV, here repurposed for Madeleine

 

....huh, I guess I didn't write any French this time. I suppose my school-taught vocabulary is not terribly well-suited for the, er, genre of encounter portrayed in this chapter.