Title: i’m a prisoner to my decisions
Work ID: 50970268
Author: fra12
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Post-Seine, Javert Lives (Les Misérables), Hand Jobs, Violent Thoughts, Light BDSM, Sharing Body Heat, Sharing a Bed, Mildly Dubious Consent, Somnophilia, Stockholm Syndrome, Angst with a Happy Ending, Fluff, Fluff and Angst, Master/Pet
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
A post-Seine fic, but within the gritty canon of the 1998 film. Valjean, who struggles with dark thoughts, rescues Javert. Javert resigns to his fate as Valjean’s “prisoner.” Though Valjean is a little dark, I promise this isn’t as angsty as it sounds.

Work text:


It was an impulsive act, jumping into the river after Javert. It was almost as if Valjean’s body acted on its own accord. He somehow conjured up the strength to not only pull Javert’s body from the water, but to also fight the rushing tide and get them both back to the river’s edge. 


 


Valjean didn’t have a moment to think, looking down at the man. He was very pale, his wet curls sticking to his face. Valjean was afraid he was dead, until the man emitted an awful gurgling noise, as if he was trying to expel water from his lungs. Valjean released a trembling breath of relief, but adrenaline still coursed through his body.


 


Quickly, Valjean flipped the inspector to his side, unbuttoning his coat and sliding it off so he could access his back. Once it was off, Valjean hit him hard on the back with his big hand. Javert gurgled again, before he suddenly gasped and coughed loudly, water starting to trickle from his mouth. Valjean pressed one hand to Javert’s belly, while the other hit his back rather forcefully, which seemed to help Javert cough up more of the water. 


 


When the violent coughing had died down some, Javert continued to make small gasping noises as if he struggled to breathe. Suddenly, Valjean remembered something he had seen in Vigau, when a child had been pulled from the water. The person who rescued him had put his lips to the child’s, breathing his own breath into his lungs. 


 


Valjean carefully laid Javert on his back, and hesitantly, straddled the man, pressing his lips to Javert’s. He blew several strong breaths into his mouth, praying that it would help the man breathe. When he pulled away, Javert coughed again, a small amount of water trickling out. Valjean placed his lips to Javert’s again, breathing more breaths into him. When he stopped, Javert’s breath was rapid but it seemed he finally had stopped coughing and gasping. 


 


He still lay unconscious, his mouth now slack. Valjean continued to hover over him, staring at the man in a daze. He looked serene. He looked beautiful. The hair that wasn’t stuck to his face lay fanned out underneath him. He looked so pale still, his skin almost porcelain in appearance, reminiscent of the dolls Valjean bought for Cosette when she was young. 


 


Despite his breathing, his appearance made him look dead. A strange thought crossed Valjean’s mind, of carrying Javert’s limp and cold body, cleaning it of the grime from the river, lovingly combing his hair, and dressing his body in his uniform so he could be laid in his casket. Valjean quickly shook off the thought, instead looking to Javert’s chest which was rapidly rising and falling, proof that he was still alive. His soaked white shirt exposed his nipples, at which Valjean couldn’t help himself from staring. 


 


The inspector, that awful, impenetrable man, was so vulnerable like this. It was captivating how he looked almost sweet, his eyelashes wet and pink lips open. Still straddling Javert’s hips, Valjean reached for his mouth, gently touching his cold lips with his fingers. He stroked his bottom lip with his thumb, watching in fascination as Javert did not respond, his lips not even twitching as Valjean touched them. Feeling a bit bolder, Valjean inched his thumb inside his mouth. He stroked around inside for a moment, touching the inspector’s tongue and teeth. Valjean stilled when Javert gasped softly, but after waiting a moment, he realized that the inspector was still quite unconscious. He switched to two fingers, half wanting Javert to suckle around them, but of course he didn’t respond, his mouth still hanging open. The man’s mouth was wet, Valjean’s intrusion causing drool to start dribbling onto his chin. 

Beautiful

, thought Valjean. 


 


Valjean hesitantly withdrew his hand, knowing that he needed to get the man home quickly. After all the effort it took to rescue him, it would do neither of them good to catch pneumonia or get hypothermia. Though Javert was quite a bit smaller than himself, he was weighed down by his wet clothes. The thought of stripping the man of his clothes so that he would be easier to carry crossed his mind, but Valjean knew he couldn’t subject the inspector to that humiliation. Grunting, Valjean managed to lift the dead weight of the man over his shoulder. He felt Javert’s limp, shackled wrists hitting his back as he slowly, carefully walked with him through the quiet streets. Dawn still had not broken. 


 


It seemed like an eternity before he reached his home. His shoulders aching, Valjean let himself in, going directly up the stairs to his bedroom. When he laid Javert on the bed, he noticed the man was shivering. Valjean realized he too was trembling from the chill of his wet clothes, but he knew he needed to very quickly warm up Javert, as his lips now looked nearly blue. With shaking hands, Valjean unbuttoned Javert’s shirt. He paused for a moment, realizing that with Javert’s shackled wrists, he would need to cut the wet cloth from him. Valjean reached for the knife he still had in his pocket from the previous night. He carefully cut the sleeves of his shirt, the heavy wet cloth finally released from Javert’s body. He threw the tattered shirt off the bed. 


 


Valjean paused, knife in hand, looking at the expanse of pale flesh exposed before him. Javert was quite thin, and not very muscled, though had a small pouch of a belly, a sign of his age. His chest had light, sparse hair that trailed down to his stomach and lower. His rosy nipples were pebbled from the cold. His skin was smooth, unmarked, very different from Valjean’s own scarred skin. Without even realizing what he was doing, Valjean pressed the dull side of the knife against Javert’s belly. 


 


He couldn’t deny that at the barricade, he had truly considered killing the inspector. Images had flashed in his mind of digging that knife into his chest, or blasting a gunshot into his jaw. He had imagined Javert’s mouth filled with blood, finally shutting him up for good. The urge had nearly overtaken him, until he recalled the mercy he was shown all those years ago. That’s when he realized he couldn’t, that he had no right to take the man’s life. 


 


Still, that horrible urge had returned to Valjean. This time, the inspector was quiet for once in his life. It would be so easy, as he lay completely at Valjean’s mercy. Valjean wondered if he would even squirm if he dug his knife into that soft belly. Valjean stared in pure fascination as he stroked the flat side of the knife up from Javert’s stomach to his chest, then all the way up to his neck. 

Slitting his throat could be quicker

, Valjean considered. When he guided the knife down to one of those lovely nipples, Javert made a small sound in his throat that broke Valjean out of his trance. 
What am I doing? 


 


He threw the knife to the floor as if it had burned his hand. He cupped Javert’s face, whispering, “I’m sorry, Javert.” The inspector, of course, did not respond, his breath coming out in shaky little gasps from the cold. Valjean quickly moved to remove Javert’s trousers. As he peeled them off, Valjean’s eyes were drawn back to the hair on Javert’s belly. The trail of hair led down to a thatch of dark, curly pubic hair. Valjean could hardly avert his gaze as he threw the trousers on the floor as well. Again, he was fascinated with how defenseless Javert was before him. He would be mortified if he knew Valjean was seeing him like this. His cock looked small and shriveled, both from the water and the cold. It laid so very vulnerably against his thigh. 


 


Valjean finally managed to to tear himself away from this sight, reminding himself of the task at hand. He removed his own clothes, feeling much lighter with the heavy, wet fabric gone. After fetching a towel, he set to work lifting Javert’s heavy limbs and drying them. Pulling up Javert to settle against his chest, he ran the towel down his torso to his crotch, flushing as he patted the inspector’s penis and testicles dry. He then bent Javert slightly forward so he could dry his back, moving down to quickly run it over his buttocks. With the towel now drenched, Valjean tossed it to the floor, moving his hands to squeeze at Javert’s curls. When he was finished, he gently laid him down on the dry side of the bed. 


 


After Valjean dried himself off, he joined Javert in the bed. He knew the best way to keep someone warm was to share body heat. Pulling a thick blanket over them, he pulled Javert to his chest. He paused, wondering how he could best keep the inspector comfortable with his wrists bound. He settled on moving Javert’s arms up, so that they rested on Valjean’s shoulder. 


 


Once he had Javert settled, Valjean drew the shivering man as close as he could to himself. He wrapped his arms around him, rubbing his back. He found himself muttering senseless phrases of reassurance to the man. Valjean drew his strong thighs over the inspector as well. He knew it was wrong, but he couldn’t help the low pull of arousal he felt as their manhoods touched one another. Eventually, Valjean was able to ignore the feeling, and was instead suddenly hit with the feeling of pure exhaustion. He was no longer a young man, and he had not only stayed up all night, but he had also carried two grown men in one day. Before Valjean knew it, he was drifting off to sleep with Javert still held tightly in his arms. 


 


Valjean slept for maybe a few hours before he was awoken by soft whimpering noises. Opening his eyes, he looked at the inspector. His eyes were still closed and he didn’t appear to be awake, but quiet noises of distress escaped his mouth. Valjean was happy to see that color had returned to Javert’s face, his cheeks slightly flushed and his lips pink again, his body warm against Valjean’s own. His mouth still hung open, and it looked almost as if the inspector had a look of confusion on his face, his brows drawn together. 


 


Valjean rubbed his hands down Javert’s back. “Shhh, dear Inspector. You’re alright. Hush now.” Javert’s arms had moved from Valjean’s shoulder down to his chest, bent at an uncomfortable angle. Valjean gently moved them back up, wincing in sympathy when he saw how chafed the poor man’s wrists appeared. He would have to get out tools later to remove the shackles. He pulled Javert to his chest, and he could feel the small breaths escaping his mouth, along with dampness from drool. Valjean just smiled at this, putting a hand into Javert’s hair, petting his head as if he were a dog. 


 


Feeling warm and comfortable with the other man in his arms, Valjean drifted back to sleep, but was awakened a short time later by Javert again making noise. This time, he was moaning in confusion. Valjean gently grabbed Javert by the hair so he could pull his head back from his chest and look at his face. The inspector’s eyelashes were fluttering, and Valjean realized with both excitement and dread that the man was regaining consciousness. 


 


Valjean held his breath until Javert’s eyes finally opened. He stared at Valjean blankly at first, almost as if he didn’t recognize him. When a look of recognition crossed his face, the inspector started whimpering and trying to wriggle out of Valjean’s tight hold. 


 


“Shhh, Javert. Be still now. You’re alright,” Valjean said, his strong arms holding Javert in a vice grip. Javert cried out, thrashing in Valjean’s hold. 


 


“Javert,” said Valjean firmly. “Calm yourself. You need to rest.” 


 


“I died,” Javert murmured. “I died. Am I in hell?”  Tears began leaking from his eyes. 


 


“You didn’t die,” Valjean replied, rubbing Javert’s back. “I pulled you out of the river. You’ve been unconscious for a while now. But you’re alive.” 


 


Valjean was startled when Javert let a loud sob escape from his throat. “Why couldn’t you have let me die?” he gasped in despair. “You should’ve just shot me at the barricade. I hate you.” 


 


Valjean felt his pulse quicken, his temper flared. He sat up, pushing Javert flat down on his back. He straddled him, and Javert’s eyes widened. Valjean had only ever seen this look of fear on the man’s face at the barricade.


 


“Do you know how many times I could’ve killed you, Javert? I could’ve strangled you with my bare hands in Toulon. I could’ve beaten you to death in Vigau. I should’ve just smashed your head open then. It’s what you deserved for the way you treated Fantine. Did you know your own captain wished you would’ve been killed then? I could’ve had my choice of shooting or stabbing you last night. And even as you laid in my bed, after I saved your pathetic life again, I could’ve stabbed you in your soft belly.” Valjean pinched the flesh, which made Javert cry out. “Or slit your throat.” He put a large hand around Javert’s neck, squeezing. 


 


Javert’s bound hands flew up in panic on reflex. Valjean didn’t hold his throat for too long, but long enough to make Javert gasp and cough when he released him. 


 


“How merciful of you,” Javert sneered, once he finished coughing. “You’ll always be a brute. How many times have you gotten off on the thought of killing me?” Javert looked pointedly at Valjean’s cock, which had gotten hard in the scuffle. Javert’s own had stirred as well from the friction of Valjean rubbing against him. 


 


“Never,” growled Valjean. He grabbed Javert by the hair, yanking it roughly. Javert’s eyes squeezed shut. “How many times have you gotten off on the thought of me hurting you? How many times have you recalled how I beat you? How many times have you fantasized about Jean the Brute killing you?” 


 


Javert turned his head away, his hair still clenched in Valjean’s hand. “You’re sick,” he hissed. “Let me go. I’ll go finish the job so you never have to see me again.” 


 


“No,” Valjean said. “You don’t get that satisfaction.” 


 


When Javert started to speak again, Valjean instead cut him off. “You were so sweet when you were unconscious, Inspector. You let me hold you, you drooled on me. I wish you could stay like that forever. I’d keep you here in my bed, and pet your head like you were my dog.” Valjean released the grip on Javert’s hair, soothingly petting the curls. “See, isn’t that better? You just need to listen to me, Javert.” 


 


“Stop this, you mad brute,” Javert hissed. “Shouldn’t you go care for your daughter and the boy? Leave me be.” 


 


With a start, Valjean remembered that the two were downstairs. He was sure Cosette had spent the whole night by Marius’ side. “Cosette is perfectly capable of caring for him on her own,” Valjean replied. “If I were to let you go, would you just go kill yourself? Tell me, Javert.” 


 


For all of Javert’s faults, Valjean admired him for his honesty. “Yes,” he murmured. 


 


“Then I shall not be letting you go,” said Valjean firmly. 


 


“So I’m your prisoner now?” Javert asked incredulously. “I’m your hostage?”


 


“Yes,” replied Valjean. “Until you decide you shall live, I’ll hold you here.” 


 


Javert sighed, glaring at Valjean. “As I said, Valjean, you’re a difficult problem.” 


 


Valjean was surprised that the man didn’t start kicking and screaming. He looked almost as if he had resigned to his fate. And Valjean supposed that would make sense, given that Javert had convinced himself is other option was death. 


 


Valjean was broken from his thoughts by Javert moving his shackled hands to Valjean’s thigh. Valjean jumped at the unexpected touch. “And I suppose as your prisoner you want to me take care of that?” asked Javert, eyes cast down at Valjean’s erection, which had flagged slightly during their conversation. 


 


Valjean gasped. “I’m not sure why you think I’m such a depraved man. I would never force myself on you.” 


 


Javert snorted in response. Realizing the irony of his words, Valjean got off Javert, laying back down. 


 


“I’m so very tired. Aren’t you tired, Javert? We should go back to sleep,” murmured Valjean. 


 


“I don’t want that poking me while we sleep,” said Javert. “Rut yourself against me like the wild beast you are.” 


 


Valjean stared at the inspector in utter confusion, but Javert refused to look back at him. “I don’t understand. Are you asking me to? You want me to?” 


 


Javert continued to avert his gaze. “I said I don’t want it rubbing against me while we sleep. You should take care of it.” 


 


Valjean flushed. “Well, I’m not doing anything unless you ask me to. If you want it, you need to beg for it.” Valjean grabbed Javert by the chin, forcing him to meet his gaze. 


 


Closing his eyes, Javert murmured, so softly that Valjean could hardly hear, “Please.” 


 


“Please what? Look at me, Inspector,” growled Valjean. 


 


Javert’s eyes fluttered open, his face flushed. “Rub yourself against me. Do it.” 


 


With that, Valjean pulled Javert to his chest, his heart racing. He slowly began rutting against Javert’s belly and cock, feeling almost as if he couldn’t control himself. The sensation felt so good. He became aware that he was grunting, as if he truly was a beast. As the tension within his body grew, he picked up the pace, rutting against Javert faster. Javert held his bound hands up to his face, almost as if hiding himself in shame. Valjean could faintly hear small sighs escaping his mouth, and he became aware that the other man was also leaking on him. 


 


Valjean suddenly laid back, pulling Javert halfway on top of him. He used his strong arms to move Javert against himself, grinding his hips up enthusiastically. Surprisingly, Javert did not resist being held and manipulated in this way. 


 


“Spend yourself on me,” whispered Javert. “Go on.” 


 


And with that, Valjean did, releasing his spend on Javert’s belly. Panting, he laid the other man back down, noticing that his cock was red and twitching in need. 


 


“Do you want me to touch you?” asked Valjean. 


 


Javert whimpered, closing his eyes. 


 


Valjean smiled, taking him in his big hand. Javert again raised his hands over his face, but was unable to control the small moans escaping his mouth. Javert had been leaking copiously, and so with the slick, tight hold Valjean had on him, he was very close already. 


 


“Come for me, Javert. Listen to me for once in your life,” said Valjean, reaching his hand down to gently touch Javert’s testicles. 


 


With that command, Javert let out a strangled cry, ejaculating onto Valjean’s hand. 


 


“Very good,” murmured Valjean. “See what happens when you listen to me?” 


 


Though Javert was blushing pink, he still scowled at Valjean. “The pious Valjean, humping me like some wild animal in heat. Did you do this to other prisoners in Toulon?” he sneered. 


 


Valjean grabbed his hair roughly. “Shut up,” he hissed. “I was going to break your shackles before we went to sleep, but I don’t think you’ve earned that yet.” 


 


Javert glared at him, but didn’t reply. After Valjean wiped the fluids off of them, he pulled Javert back to his chest. “Go to sleep. If you sleep well for me, I will break your chains when we wake.” 


 


With a defeated look, Javert closed his eyes. If at some point, Valjean felt Javert bury his face into his chest and sob as Valjean drifted off to sleep, he didn’t mention it to the man later. 


 


———————————————————


 


Cosette was overjoyed when Valjean told her that he was shown mercy and would not have to go to prison. She was less enthusiastic, however, when her father told her that he was taking care of the horrible police inspector in his bedroom. The only explanation Valjean could provide was that God commanded him to show mercy on Javert because he was the reason why Valjean and Marius weren’t arrested. When Cosette tried to argue, Valjean ended the discussion, simply telling her that she would not need to see Javert if she just avoided Valjean’s bedroom. So she did, avoiding the upper level of their home entirely, spending her days by Marius’ side as he recovered. The two young people excitedly discussed marriage, hoping to wed as soon as Marius was well enough. Though Valjean was sad at the prospect of his daughter getting married, he couldn’t help how his heart swelled at seeing her so happy, the happiest she had ever been in her life. 


 


Having Javert to care for was a welcome distraction from Valjean’s sorrow about losing his daughter. For his part, Javert seemed to thrive on having small “rewards” to work for. Valjean kept good on his word that he would break his shackles. However, he replaced them with silk cravats that bound the inspector’s arms. Valjean was concerned that if he let Javert’s arms be free, he would try to hurt himself. He threatened that if Javert tried to run, he would bind his leg as well. When Javert went two days without begging Valjean to release him so that he could go die, Valjean rewarded him by removing the bindings. 


 


Javert had earned the right to wear clothing when he began to care for himself again, gaining the motivation to bathe himself, brush his hair, and clean his teeth. He earned a book when he finished all three meals Valjean gave him in a day. When Javert spent a day without arguing with Valjean, Valjean fetched some snuff for him. 


 


A week into being held in Valjean’s bedroom, Javert had slowly become more cooperative, and at times, even somewhat pleasant. His moods were especially lifted when he was allowed his snuff. This made Valjean’s aggression fade, and he felt guilty for how he had treated Javert that first day. Every night, Javert didn’t resist being pulled into Valjean’s strong arms to sleep. To Valjean’s great surprise, Javert had quietly asked him if he wanted to be touched on two different evenings, as he laid curled up in Valjean’s arms. Under the cover of night, the two men stroked each other to completion, muffled moans and grunts echoing through the room. 


 


Valjean decided to come up with a new reward Javert could work for: if he could go an entire week without insulting anyone, including Valjean, Cosette, Marius, himself, or anyone else, he would reward him with a meal of his choosing: a feast complete with as much wine and snuff as he wanted. 


 


Javert seemed to take this as a challenge. “You think I won’t be able to do it,” he smirked. “You think I’m weak. I’ll do it. I don’t even want the feast. I just want to prove you wrong.” 


 


This made Valjean smile. “We’ll see,” he said. 


 


Without Javert’s complaints or insults, it initially seemed quiet in their room that week. Valjean shyly asked if he could read to Javert, so he could practice. Javert must have been so bored that he agreed, and he was surprisingly patient at the slow pace at which Valjean read. It made Valjean smile during one lazy afternoon that Javert had fallen asleep to the deep rumble of Valjean’s voice. 


 


The two would occasionally even reminisce about things in Vigau, stories and memories that amused them. Javert carefully avoided talking about any other officers, or the prostitutes and thieves, so that he wouldn’t break his several day streak of no insults. At some point, the two men realized they had missed a decade of each other’s lives. Javert seemed deeply intrigued about Valjean’s life inside the convent; he had been curious ever since that evening he had been denied entry. Likewise, Valjean pressed Javert about his life in Paris serving as Chabouillet’s deputy and working his way to Chief Inspector. It didn’t surprise him to learn that Javert never stopped being ambitious. Though, speaking about his career too long made Javert look sad, and Valjean knew he would need to press him at some point about what he said in his letter to the prefect. 


 


One evening, as the two were about to sleep, Valjean murmured into Javert’s hair, “Do you wish to return to your post?” 


 


“No,” replied Javert. 


 


“Why?” asked Valjean, a hand finding its way into Javert’s hair. 


 


“There’s a lot of reasons. I’ll explain them sometime. I fear I’ll break my streak of no insults if I explain now,” replied Javert somewhat bitterly. 


 


Valjean couldn’t help the tenderness that overcame him. Tilting Javert’s chin up, he gently kissed his lips. When the two broke apart, Valjean saw the slightest hint of a smile on Javert’s face; it was a genuine smile, not a smirk or sneer. Valjean’s heart fluttered with happiness at the sight. Javert leaned back in hesitantly, and Valjean captured his lips again. The two men lazily made love, kissing each other all the way through. 


 


Javert was utterly gleeful when he completed his week without insulting anyone. “I told you I could,” he said smugly to Valjean. 


 


“I never thought I would be able to tame you,” laughed Valjean. He paused, waiting for Javert to snap back at him. 


 


Instead, Javert snorted. “Aren’t you the tamed one? Remember when you bit me in Toulon?” 


 


Valjean initially grimaced; the two had avoided speaking of Toulon the entire week.  But then, Valjean noticed the twinkle in Javert’s eye, almost as if the memory amused him now. Laughing, Valjean drew Javert against him. “I could still bite you now, if you wanted,” he muttered suggestively, gently nipping at Javert’s neck. 


 


The sound of Javert’s laughter startled him. He didn’t think he had ever heard the stern man laugh. He kissed up Javert’s neck, trailing kisses up his face. 


 


Javert playfully pushed Valjean off. “Don’t you have a feast to prepare for me?” he asked mirthfully. 


 


So, Valjean did, preparing a hearty meal of chicken and potatoes complete with vegetables from the garden. He even convinced Cosette to leave Marius for a while so she could help him bake a cake. 


 


Cosette surveyed the food before them. “You’re too kind to that inspector, Papa,” she sighed. “When will he be leaving?” 


 


Valjean turned away from Cosette, casting his eyes down. “I’m not sure. Do you want your father to be so lonely after you’re married? Perhaps it would do me good to have a friend, even if he’s an unlikely friend.” 


 


Cosette looked at her father in sympathy, coming over to kiss his cheek. “I suppose you’re right. I will hesitate to welcome him with open arms, however.” 


 


“And that’s fine,” Valjean replied. “Here, prepare plates for Marius and yourself before I take food up for Javert.” 


 


To Valjean’s great delight, Javert thoroughly enjoyed the meal. He hadn’t seen the man eat so much in one sitting as he did now. He also happily indulged in several glasses of wine. 


 


As Javert savored the cake, he looked at Valjean in surprise. “Where did you learn to bake?” 


 


“Cosette actually helped me with that,” replied Valjean. 


 


“Hm,” Javert grunted. “I suppose she will make a fine wife, then.” 


 


Valjean smiled sadly. “Yes, I suppose so.” 


 


After the two finished their meal, Javert leaned back against the bed, satisfied and flushed from the wine. Valjean joined him, sighing. He nervously fiddled with the end of his shirt. 


 


“What’s troubling you?” Javert asked, his words slightly slurred from both the wine and sleepiness. “Is it your daughter?”


 


“No. Well, yes, but there’s something else. I’m ashamed of my actions. While I don’t regret saving you, and I don’t regret having you in my home, I shouldn’t have treated you as a prisoner. I shouldn’t have been harsh with you, especially that first day you were here,” Valjean said shakily, recalling how he had described all the ways he could have killed Javert. 


 


Javert looked at Valjean, his lips turned up in amusement. “If this is how you treat a prisoner, Valjean, I would gladly be your prisoner for as long as you like.” He placed his hand on Valjean’s thigh, squeezing it. “I can endure your harsh treatment,” he said, his tone suggestive. 


 


Valjean could tell Javert was drunk. He had a feeling the man rarely drank wine. “I am serious. I said cruel things to you, violent things. I pulled your hair. When you were unconscious, I stroked my knife against you. I sometimes feel I can’t control my anger,” he said sadly. 


 


Javert hummed in acknowledgement. “It’s only fair. I was unjustly cruel to you, for years. I hold nothing against you.” 


 


Valjean was surprised at this admission. “Well, I’m still sorry,” he sighed. 


 


Javert sniffed up some tobacco before looking at Valjean. “I’ve been thinking. You’ve given me rewards all week. I think you deserve one now.” 


 


“I don’t want one,” murmured Valjean sadly. 


 


“Listen to me,” Javert snapped. “I remember you saying how much you liked when I was unconscious. How much you liked how I was quiet and sweet and drooled on you. For your reward, I shall be quiet all night and you can just hold me.” 


 


Valjean felt his eyes well with tears. “Oh, Javert. Sweet Javert.” 


 


Javert smiled. “I’m only sweet when you command it of me.” With that, he guided the two down to lay together on the bed. “Wait, I’m forgetting something. To really recreate that day, we need to divest ourselves of our clothes and share our body heat.” 


 


“You’re drunk,” Valjean murmured into his neck. 


 


“Maybe so, but I won’t be quiet until you’re bare,” said Javert. 


 


Valjean acquiesced, ridding himself of his clothes. He helped Javert, who was struggling with clumsy hands, to take his off as well. Once they settled under the blanket together, Javert snuggled into Valjean’s chest humming in contentment. 


 


“Goodnight, Javert,” Valjean said.


 


Javert didn’t reply, allowing his mouth to drop open as if he really was unconscious. Valjean gently placed his thumb against his bottom lip, just as he did after he pulled him from the river. Though Javert was probably still awake, he laid very still, allowing Valjean to insert his thumb into his mouth. Valjean stroked inside gently before moving it back to Javert’s wine-stained lips.


 


“Shh, Inspector. I’ll take care of you,” whispered Valjean. He removed his hand, kissing the plump bottom limp gently. Committed to his role, Javert did not stir. Valjean then rubbed Javert’s back, as if needing to warm up the other man. 


 


Valjean muttered nonsense as he drifted off to sleep, phrases such as “So good, so sweet for me” spoken into Javert’s hair. 


 


—————————————————


 


Though the relationship between Valjean and Javert made little sense to Cosette, she was glad to see her father’s spirits lifted after she and Marius wed. She didn’t question why Javert was a permanent fixture in her father’s home. Every interaction with the man was awkward, but he at least never insulted her or Marius. 


 


“I think your father has him on a tight leash,” Marius joked after leaving Valjean’s home one evening. 


 


Little did Marius or Cosette know, Javert almost had become Valjean’s spoiled pup. Though Valjean wanted to stop the “reward” system, Javert begged for it back, craving the structure that he had lost when he abandoned his post with the police. Valjean had to get creative with some of his rewards, and he did often find himself petting Javert’s belly or head as if he really were a dog. Valjean recalled how he told Javert when he rescued him that he wished he was sweet and quiet like a dog. But, Valjean realized, a good dog should have a streak of wildness, should bark and yip for his master, and bite back when he needs to. 


 


The two lived contentedly in this strange relationship. They spent sunny days in the garden, and rainy days in the sitting room, where Valjean practiced reading out loud as Javert laid his head in his lap. They slept in each other’s arms every night. Valjean felt more at peace than he ever had in his life, his temper much more controlled. Though Javert still had a tough exterior, Valjean cherished their tender moments together, and found the former inspector was very affectionate in his own way. When they walked the streets together, and Javert would brush his hand against Valjean’s with the slightest smile, Valjean felt as though his heart could burst with happiness. 


 


One day, Valjean woke later than usual with Javert not in his arms. Still, even after all this time, he panicked. As Valjean searched the house in a flurry, he found a note in the kitchen. 


 



Jean, 



 



I’m delivering our extra tomatoes to Cosette. I’ll return soon. 



 



Your loving prisoner, 





J 



 


Valjean never smiled so wide in his life. 
