Title: you take and you give, you give and you take
Work ID: 51302989
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Collars, Oral Sex, Deepthroating, Rough Sex, Mildly Dubious Consent, Facials, Light Angst, Madeleine Era, Kinktober 2023, playing a little fast and loose with the prompt, but i couldn't resist javert's CanonTM collar
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
He had wanted to serve. He had asked to be punished.


Madeleine wasn’t sure which, exactly, Javert viewed this as, the once-crisp lines of Javert’s uniform wrinkling as he sank down to his knees at Madeleine’s feet.

Kinktober 2023, prompt "collaring."

Work text:

He had wanted to serve. He had asked to be punished.

Madeleine wasn’t sure which, exactly, Javert viewed this as, the once-crisp lines of Javert’s uniform wrinkling as he sank down to his knees at Madeleine’s feet. Javert’s queue was impeccable, not a single hair loose from its riband as he ducked his head forward. Javert’s mouth dropped open to drag obscenely across the front of Madeleine’s trousers, right above where the fine, soft fabric was beginning to tent; Madeleine’s cock lengthening and swelling against the damp press of Javert’s lips and tongue. 

Javert’s throat was already working, straining and swallowing within the confines of his thick leather stock. Madeleine could see, as he gazed down at the man who knelt before him, the way the collar bit into the skin of Javert’s neck beneath his worn-thin shirt; like it had been buckled a bit too tightly.

Like Javert had tightened it before coming here.

Madeleine’s hand was steady as he allowed his fingertips to trail idly down Javert’s face—from his hairline, through his whiskers, along his jaw.

He kept his exploration to only one side of Javert’s face, giving the other man access to lift his own hands—still wrapped tightly in his black leather gloves—in front of him, in order to unbutton Madeleine’s trousers, unfasten Madeleine’s drawers.

Madeleine’s curious, leisurely touch faltered on Javert’s throat, scant centimeters above his stock, at the first touch of Javert’s broad palm around his cock. Fully hard now, Madeleine’s length jutted forward thick and red and twitching beneath Javert’s dark-eyed gaze as Javert stroked it lightly and pushed aside crumpled fabric. Biting back a moan, Madeleine had only a few seconds to wonder at the sensation of Javert’s hand on him, where no one else had ever—where Madeleine himself only rarely—before Javert was bowing his head and wrapping his lips around Madeleine’s cock.

Gasping, Madeleine could not resist a single, reflexive thrust forward; too sharp, too sudden. Before Javert had a chance to brace his hands against Madeleine’s hips, the cock Javert had suckled into his mouth bumped against the back of his throat, and Madeleine felt as much as heard Javert fighting back a gag. Javert’s gloved hands scrambled along the front of Madeleine’s trousers before he sunk his fingers into slackened cloth and swallowed deeply, constricting rhythms of wet heat rippling around Madeleine’s cock as Javert took the other man into his throat.

Madeleine had regained control of himself, for all that he wanted to keep thrusting into the tight hot cavern of Javert’s mouth, but it did not matter: Javert did not falter again.

Javert kept his hands steady on Madeleine’s hips for balance—first moving his head downward, tongue moving thick and wet along the underside of Madeleine’s length, tracing the thickest vein. Javert opened his jaw wider, swallowing, relaxing his throat until he could take Madeleine further—until Madeleine was buried so deeply inside Javert’s throat that the younger man’s spit-slicked mouth was pressed up against the base of Madeleine’s cock, his nose pushed into wiry brown curls, his skin grown flushed as he gasped and choked around the thick length leaking salt and fluid down his throat.

Slowly, Javert began to lick and suck back up Madeleine’s length, lips swollen and slick and tender where they stretched delicately around the fat cock stuffed between them. Javert curved his tongue along the underside so that it dragged against Madeleine’s cock as he drew his head back and his mouth almost all the way off, pausing there, with the blunt and heavy head leaking pre-ejaculate across his tongue. Javert’s eyelashes fluttered as he suckled at the soft, spongy skin held reverently in his mouth, lapping gently at the slit for another burst of salty fluid.

Javert whimpered, muffled by the length bearing down upon his tongue, and pushed his head back down to swallow it deeply into his throat once again.

As Javert sank his head down Madeleine’s length a second time—taking the thick and heavy girth more quickly, more easily than before—Madeleine’s free hand lingered where he had placed it earlier, his fingertips against Javert’s neck. He felt the thrum of Javert’s pulse, the constriction of muscles moving and flexing. Like this, Madeleine could feel Javert’s throat shift and move under his palm at the same time he felt that same squeezing pressure wrapped around his cock.

It took every ounce of self-control Madeleine possessed to not abandon himself to that pressure, not to grasp Javert by his still-tidy queue and hold Javert’s head in place with both hands while he fucked Javert’s mouth.

Instead, Madeleine allowed himself continue to feel Javert’s throat working furiously under his hand as Javert’s head bobbed over Madeleine’s length, the twin sensations of warm skin moving against Madeleine’s fingertips at the same time Javert’s impossibly slick, tight throat swallowed his cock down to the root.

Javert’s neck was still pinched by the the subtle tightness of his leather stock, and Madeleine watched in fascination at Javert’s ragged, uneven panting, his throat working desperately as he accommodated Madeleine’s cock inside his mouth at the same time his leather collar refused to yield, digging into sensitive skin.

It had to be difficult to breathe like that, Madeleine thought, even as his fingers trailed down to barely skim along the top of the collar.

Javert’s grey eyes, damp and bleary, gazed up at Madeleine from beneath the dark fan of his lashes. His eyelids fluttered as Madeleine ran one callused fingertip along the edge where leather pressed too deeply into the threadbare linen of Javert’s shirt, and the thin skin of Javert’s neck.

Madeleine was not sure what he saw, looking into Javert’s blown-black pupils, but Madeleine held Javert’s gaze with his own as he hunched his shoulders forward and slid the tips of two fingers inside the tight squeeze of leather around Javert’s neck, and dragged him forward by the collar.

Much like his first accidental thrust into Javert’s mouth, the angle was wrong. Javert sputtered around Madeleine’s cock in his mouth and only just avoided grazing Madeleine with his teeth as Madeleine pulled Javert’s mouth further down his cock, weighing Javert down by his grip on Javert’s leather stock.

The stock was broad; wider, taller than a more typical collar might be—and Madeleine wasn’t thinking of other collars, of what it would mean if Javert was wearing something around his throat that wasn’t his leather stock—and Madeleine had barely formed the thought before he was sinking his fingers deep inside the space between skin and fabric and leather. 

It was a close fit from how tightly Javert had buckled it, but sweat slicked the way and the soft skin of Javert’s throat yielded to the pressure, Javert’s pulse pounding beneath Madeleine’s touch. Javert whined, high-pitched and gasping, his breathing growing more labored where the fingers wedged between his throat and his collar. Madeleine watched Javert’s wide nostrils flare as he dragged in air, inhaling furiously as his throat worked around Madeleine’s throbbing, aching length. 

Javert’s eyes grew dazed and glassy as Madeleine fed his cock past those stretched and puffy lips, as Madeleine sunk back into the slick heat of Javert’s mouth. Madeleine could imagine it, Javert caught between the girth pushing inexorably from the inside of his throat at the same time Madeleine’s fingers pressed against his pulse and tugged sharply at the buckled collar biting down into his flesh. Javert blinked rapidly, involuntary tears working their way down his flushed cheeks to disappear into the thick whiskers framing his face.

With Javert’s mouth full of Madeleine’s cock and the crush of Madeleine’s fingers further cutting into Javert’s supply of air, the other man could not speak, but he gave another small, hitched whimper as Madeleine took his collar in hand, fingers curled around stiff leather, and pulled Javert’s head down his cock before dragging him back up again. He quickly established a rhythm that was choppier than what Javert’s smooth, even bobs along his length had accomplished, but was all the more satisfying for the way Javert moaned and grew pliant in Madeleine’s grasp, his body loose and unresisting as the older man directed Javert entirely by the tug and push of his fingers hooked inside Javert’s stock.

Javert’s hands were still crumpled in the fabric of Madeleine’s trousers, using them only for balance, to keep his body in place as Madeleine used it, his back straight even as Madeleine guided his head back down, down, down his cock, Javert’s nose pressed into Madeleine’s bristly curls again.

Javert’s hips rocked with the movements of Madeleine’s grip on his collar, seeking friction for his own neglected cock, but Madeleine could scarcely notice the push of Javert’s hips for the tight, rippling heat of Javert’s throat that threatened to overwhelm Madeleine’s senses and carry his thoughts away completely.

Javert had wanted to serve; he served Madeleine well. Javert had asked to be punished; let Javert walk away with his neck bruised and his throat wrecked and his own length yet unsatisfied. Let Javert return to his duty, the long hours of his shift stretching ahead of him, with the memory of Madeleine’s cock in his mouth and the bite of his collar at his throat and nothing else.

Madeleine thought of that—Javert sitting at his desk, or returning to his patrols. Javert, trying to focus on his usual assignments when mere hours before that stern, unyielding mouth had opened up and taken Madeleine’s cock inside it. He looked down at Javert’s face: the faint blush tinting Javert’s brown skin, the tears dripping down from Javert’s dizzied, wondering eyes; his lips gone plush and shining where they worshipped Madeleine’s cock.

“Inspector,” Madeleine said; the first words he had spoken to Javert since before the other man had slid to his knees. “Inspector, I—”

Whatever Javert might have done in response to Madeleine’s impending orgasm, he couldn’t say, because in a flash of wild desire Madeleine knew exactly what he wanted.

Madeleine yanked Javert by his stock, pinching the dark leather between thumb and forefingers, pulling Javert up and off his length. Javert’s tongue still slicked along the underside of Madeleine’s cock as Madeleine withdrew, Javert still trying to suckle at the head heavy on his tongue as Madeleine felt the first pulse of his release rip through his body and jangle along his nerves.

The first spurts of Madeleine’s orgasm flooded Javert’s mouth, thick and salty where they flowed across Javert’s tongue and dripped down his lips, even as he tried to swallow past the burn of his abused throat. But Madeleine was not satisfied with his spend in Javert’s mouth, his throat, his stomach. Madeleine tugged sharply at the stock until his cock popped free of Javert’s mouth; a thick, sticky strand of spunk and saliva stretching between Javert’s lips and Madeleine’s length as another pulse of seed splashed across Javert’s nose, and another along his jaw.

Javert’s eyes slid closed and he stilled, quiescent at Madeleine’s feet as Madeleine came in ropes across his face, dribbling spend down Javert’s cheeks. Madeleine could not recall the last time he had touched himself, and he did not know if he had ever spent as heavily before as he did now, painting Javert’s upturned and waiting face in his seed.

Madeleine lurched forward, unsteady on wobbling knees, and his softening cock bumped Javert’s nose, his cheek; dragging a final line of spend through Javert’s whiskers before Madeleine caught his balance and righted himself with his hands on Javert’s shoulders.

Madeleine looked down at the man at his feet once again.

Javert’s hips still rolled in tiny, aborted movements; the front placket of his uniform trousers stretched and straining over the bulge of his erection. His gloved hands were still fisted in the creased tangle of Madeleine’s drawers. Javert’s queue had loosened from the rough handling of Madeleine’s fingers gripping his collar, dragging him backwards and forwards, but his hair had not yet escaped its riband. His familiar blue jacket had, remarkably, remained unscathed; unstained by Madeleine’s copious release.

But the face tipped back to gaze up at Madeleine was—

Sweat darkened Javert’s temples; tear tracks dried down his cheeks and clumped his eyelashes together. Madeleine’s spend lay thick and drying across his nose, down his cheeks, clumped in his hair—only his lips and chin were mostly clean where Javert’s tongue darted out to lap at Madeleine’s seed, Javert’s expression hazy as he licked at the tacky patches of salt decorating his mouth and swallowed past the wreck of his throat.

Madeleine’s eyes followed the pink flick of Javert’s tongue against his swollen lips, watched a line of spend ooze down Javert’s chin, dripping beyond the flash of tongue to wind its way down Javert’s throat. Madeleine tracked the thin trickle of seed as it moved past Javert’s bobbing Adam’s apple, and past the line of fresh bruises beginning to bloom around Javert’s neck where the stock had bit too tightly—where Madeleine had pulled too roughly. 

As he watched, Javert still licking his mouth clean of Madeleine’s release, a dribble of spend slipped down Javert’s throat, past the neckline of Javert’s shirt and disappearing behind the edge of his collar, right where Madeleine had gripped it previously. Impulsively, Madeleine brought his thumb up to swipe through the wetness gathered there; moving his thumb in slow, firm circles, working his seed into the skin above Javert’s stock.

With a shuddering breath, Madeleine withdrew his hand and took a step back from the man kneeling before him, suddenly conscious of his state of undress. He tucked himself away and refastened his drawers, dragging his crumpled trousers back up his legs. 

Madeleine cleared his throat, looking away from Javert, still stained and tacky with the drying remnants of Madeleine’s release, and spoke in the stifling silence that remained as both men’s breathing evened out: “I believe that will will be all for today, Monsieur l’Inspecteur.”

If Javert was surprised by Madeleine’s sudden dismissal, he gave no obvious indication of such; merely nodded once with a sharp jerk of his chin, and rose slowly on unsteady legs. 

Even with his uniform mercifully spared save for the stained leather stock, Javert's face was filthy, his whiskers matted, his skin damp with sweat. If anyone were to see him before Javert had an opportunity to finish cleaning himself off and tidying his clothing, it would be immediately, inescapably obvious what the man had been doing.

Madeleine’s stomach gave a satisfied leap at the idea—that people might see; that people could know—and his spent cock throbbed weakly in response. He looked over at the other man, where despite his soiled, disheveled appearance Javert had resumed his usual militant bearing: shoulders back and spine straight, hands clasped behind him. 

Madeleine’s lip twitched, but with Javert once again standing at attention in the middle of his office, as if nothing unusual or unexpected had occurred, as if this were simply any other day between Montreuil’s mayor and inspector—it was almost easy, to ignore Javert’s dirtied cheeks and unkempt hair. To pretend that a few minutes prior, Javert’s lips hadn’t been wrapped around his cock, or lapping at his spend.

To give Javert the same distant, polite expression Madeleine had honed over years of long practice and would often favor Javert in particular with, each man nodding to one other as they passed by on the streets—Madeleine on his way to the factory or the mairie, and Javert making his usual patrols around town.

It was surprisingly easy, to turn to Javert with the faint smile that Madeleine would have given him on any other day, and gesture amiably toward the door of his office.

“I’m sure we will see each other again soon, Inspector,” Madeleine said. “You are dismissed.”