Title: any dream that keeps you from sleeping well
Work ID: 51421126
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Masturbation, Fantasizing, Toulon Era (Les Misérables), Strength Kink, Wall Sex, Denial, Javert's Confused Boner (Les Misérables), Bottom Javert (Les Misérables), Romani Javert (Les Misérables), Anal Sex, Kinktober 2023
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
It did not matter, nor did it mean anything, what Javert thought of for the sake of swiftly obtaining his release. Any wild thought could be appealing when blood heated and raged beneath skin, when a firm hand reached for tender flesh. It was no more significant than an errant dream. It had no bearing on anything Javert would usually think about, anything Javert would usually want.


It meant nothing.

Kinktober 2023, prompt "masturbation."

Work text:

Javert walked sedately down the dimly lit corridor that connected together the long line of the guards’ barracks. If he had been any other man, Javert would have been shuffling and yawning, dragging his feet tiredly at the end of an interminably long double-shift, already tugging at his stiff collar and the tidy row of buttons running down the front of his uniform. Perhaps even untying his riband and shaking out the waves of his—admittedly, rather old-fashioned—long, dark hair. But Javert was not any other man, and so his shoulders were square and his head held high, even as he fought off the urge to allow his eyelids to droop, and his pace was much slower and less steady than it might have otherwise been.

At twenty, Javert was one of the younger guards stationed at Toulon that year, and certainly men some years his senior had no problem wandering the corridors around their bunkrooms in all manner of repose and states of undress. They seemed to view the connecting hallways no differently than they did the modest privacy of their narrow beds. Javert—aware that a bohémien bastard and son of criminals did not make adjutant guard by engaging in indecorous, slovenly habits—looked at his fellow guards from afar with a feeling of disdain and dissatisfaction, at least for anyone of his own rank. His superiors Javert viewed more with a vague sense of disappointment that he found himself repeatedly attempting to suppress.

The hour was late, past when many of the other guards would have long since turned in for the night. But after Javert’s second shift had ended and he had bolted down a meager supper little different than what they fed the prisoners, he had spent the next few hours writing up his personal report for the day, annotating his notes for the week, and reviewing a handful of more recent prisoner records in addition to several of the library’s perpetually outdated newspapers. Javert was still not as quick as he would prefer at reading or writing, and he still loathed both activities entirely. But his resentment toward either practice was not excuse enough to shirk the work, even if it did add two or three or four hours to the end of an already long day.

With most of the other off-duty guards already sound asleep in their bunks, Javert had to move quietly throughout his quarters, removing his shako and stripping himself of his uniform with hasty susurrations of fabric before neatly folding and tucking it away for the morning. He would need to clean his uniform in the coming days, and likely mend it too. Javert mentally listed those chores amongst his various other shifts and duties for the week, idly considering his schedule as he tugged his nightshirt over his head, the threadbare fabric falling to his calves. He finally tugged free his queue, placing his riband on top of his folded uniform and carefully dragging his fingers through his hair until it fell in smooth waves past his shoulderblades.

With a final brush of his hands over his burgeoning sideburns—he had been considering growing them out in the same fashion as the commissaire—and a splash of cold water over his face from the basin the several guards who shared the room kept in one corner, Javert crawled onto the lowest bunk that was his bed. He slid beneath the thin, scratchy blanket that smelled faintly of mildew no matter how many times Javert laundered it, and fully intended to immediately drop off to sleep; the sooner to be ready for another painfully early morning and another long day of back-to-back shifts.

Instead Javert lay there on his side in the dark, his eyes pressed tightly closed. He felt a restlessness he did not like stirring in his stomach, his limbs—between his legs.

He was not unfamiliar with this feeling, especially the past few years, for reasons Javert was persistently determined to be unaware of and not always with as much success as he would have preferred. But sometimes, he could simply ignore the feeling until it fizzled into nothingness on its own, and relax into sleep without entertaining the unwanted and excessive demands of his unruly body.

There were other nights, however, where no amount of lying there and waiting for the problem to go away would be effective, and Javert would be forced to take himself in hand lest he lose out on a night of much-needed rest entirely.

Unfortunately, it seemed to be shaping up into one of those other nights as the minutes ticked by, his skin prickling, the throbbing heat of his length only growing in intensity rather than receding. Javert huffed into his pillow, his lips twisted into a snarl and his brow deeply furrowed in agitation.

Another fifteen, twenty minutes passed and Javert was no less aroused and no closer to sleep, even as the hour for the morning shift grew increasingly nearer. With a final, almost silent growl at the treachery of his own body, Javert shuffled onto his back beneath the blanket, rucked up the bottom hem of his shift, and wrapped long fingers around his aching cock.

He bit back a low hiss at the first touch of his hand, his cock throbbing with suppressed need. While none of the guards were in any way ignorant to what one man or another might get up to on his own time—particularly whenever coin did not allow for a visit to the nearest brothel—it was an unspoken agreement by most that any self-abuse would be furtive, quiet, and as easy to ignore as was possible. 

Some of the men abided by this silent accord better than others, and Javert, for his part, had no desire at all for the men who shared his room to be aware that he indulged in this particular activity. Javert needed to be above his body’s base, animal instincts. He needed to be above reproach. The fact he could not always succeed was nothing more than a shameful failure on his part, and certainly nothing Javert wanted advertised around men who couldn’t even wait until they returned to their quarters at the end of the day to begin disrobing.

With deft, even motions, Javert stripped the pulsing heat of his cock; he knew well enough what felt good and what could build his release most quickly, having little desire to drag this farce out any longer than absolutely necessary. Javert fully intended to bring himself to completion rapidly and with as little inconvenience as possible, dab himself off with the handkerchief he kept tucked beneath his mattress, and finally drift off for the night. He was certainly not thinking of anything or anyone in particular as he worked a hand along his shaft.

Thus the flash of dark eyes that appeared behind his closed eyelids was unintended, and the spike of desire that flared deep in the pit of his stomach all the more so. Javert found he had to work harder to fight back a groan, trapping the sound in his throat and wheezing breathily as his cock began to leak over his hand.

Javert shoved the image of that deep, riveting gaze away from the forefront of his mind. There was no one he wanted nor needed to think about. He only required a few more minutes, and then this would all be over with, and he could continue to ignore the fact he had ever been obligated to partake in this useless activity in the first place.

The memory of dark eyes was replaced by the strong shoulders and burly arms of the man they belonged to, pushing against the caryatid, and Javert’s cock flexed beneath his hand. Within moments, the memory shifted, altered: the man was not only standing there, easily supporting the carved stone pillar with his impressive strength. In Javert’s mind, he saw the man’s barrel chest strain tightly against his soiled red smock, rivulets of sweat carving their way down his face, his neck. The man’s powerful legs surged and the muscles of his back bulged, holding aloft the tremendous weight bearing down upon him. 

Javert whimpered, very quietly, before bringing his other hand up to his mouth and biting down harshly into the tender flesh between forefinger and thumb. He muffled his cries as his cock twitched and spasmed, dripping pre-ejaculate and smoothing the rapid, twisting glide of his hand working furiously over his aching erection. What had been a perfunctory buzz of arousal was now a roiling inferno burning beneath skin that felt suddenly too tight, his cock pounding and desperate with need. Not just a need for release, but a need for—more—more sensation, more stimulus, more touch. More along his cock, against his sac, his nipples, inside him, inside him, inside him—

His teeth sank deeper into his hand, burying a scattered, gasping moan as his attempts to ignore the man flooding his mind collapsed into ruins. Javert knew those broad shoulders, those enormous arms. 

Perhaps not the most notorious, nor the biggest or tallest, nor even necessarily the handsomest of men in Toulon, but the strongest—oh, the strongest. Rippling with muscles, immense with power and vigor. Sturdy and unyielding with his thick neck and deep chest, his impossible strength that could have lifted Javert without pausing, without effort, without even needing to catch his breath. Even after Javert’s most recent growth spurt had added further centimeters to his height, his rangy body could readily be held up—held down—by that man. 24601, le Cric, the Jackscrew: Jean Valjean.

It was not the first time Valjean had appeared in his mind while Javert capitulated to the necessity of self-abuse, despite the fact that each time brought with it a sweeping wave of nauseated self-loathing that should have been enough to cool his ardor entirely, but instead only seemed to sharpen the edge of it. Javert’s thoughts whispered to him, asking what kind of man was he, to look at a convict and imagine himself on his knees, licking his tongue down the entirety of Valjean’s equally impressive girth. What kind of man was he, wanting to feel that power unrestrained—pressing Javert to the floor, forcing his legs apart and thrusting past the tight ring of Javert’s hole. Burying himself hot and burning like a brand impossibly deep inside, pushing against the slick walls of Javert’s passage and reshaping Javert into a vessel made solely to fit le Cric’s cock.

What kind of man was he, to picture those strong arms and that ridiculous strength lifting Javert easily, carelessly; Javert wrapping his own arms around the convict’s neck just to maintain balance. Javert’s naked body, still awkward in its lingering scraps of youth, pressing against the other man’s, Valjean carrying Javert across a room—any room: his bunkroom, a prison cell, the infirmary, it did not matter—and holding Javert against the wall. Valjean lifting Javert’s lean, too-long legs over Valjean’s sculpted, hirsute forearms, pulling Javert down by his bony hips to split the younger man open on Valjean’s long, thick cock.

Javert’s hand stuttered along his length, his back bending forward under the blanket, his balls drawn up tight beneath his cock as his mind carried on without worrying about what he should and shouldn’t be thinking about. Without concern for the fact Valjean was a convict and Javert could never—would never—debase himself for any man, and certainly not one in the bagne. Not even Valjean, whose brawny legs honed by years of toil would push up against Javert’s pliant body, Javert’s spine curving against the wall as he was dragged down with each thrust, Valjean’s grip on his hips bruising, punishing, inescapable.

Valjean, the Jackscrew, who would slowly lift Javert off his length, stopping with just the fat head of his cock dilating the dusky furl of Javert’s entrance. Javert’s body, held suspended and thrashing, with just the tip of Valjean’s cock inside of him before the other man pulled him back down, Javert’s weight sinking him further along the cock pushing him open and taking him apart. Javert’s entire world narrowing to the feel and touch and sight and smell of Valjean all around him: Valjean’s broad and surprisingly gentle face above him, Valjean’s massive chest and shoulders against him, Valjean’s thick arms holding him close as he fucked Javert dazed and senseless against the wall. Javert spasming with each stuttered, upward thrust.

That heavy, leaking cock would strike deep and unerring within him, dragging against Javert’s prostate until he arched and cried out, clutching at Valjean’s back. And Javert would grind down on the rigid length spreading him, press and rub himself against the man surrounding and pervading each of Javert’s senses until he was coming, untouched—long sticky ropes landing across their stomachs, Javert’s hole squeezing and clenching around the thick length that carved him out and filled him up until Javert thought he could feel it against the back of his throat.

Javert’s hand was ragged and jerky in its motions as he bit back each pant and groan against his fist, writhing within his bedding, desperately trying to stay silent and not awaken his sleeping bunkmates even as he spiraled closer and closer to his release. In his mind, his rippling, clenching hole had pulled Valjean over the edge as well, the older man pouring himself inside Javert in pounding throbs of wet heat that Javert imagined he could feel filling him; could feel squeezing past the last, uneven churning of Valjean’s hips, dripping the convict’s spend from Javert’s hole, smearing hot and filthy across Javert’s thighs.

Valjean would slow the rocking of his pelvis against Javert’s slick and reddened backside, his cock still impressive even spent as he pulled out of Javert with a rough tug that would have left Javert moaning, still splayed against the wall, caged within Valjean’s arms. A final gush of Valjean’s seed—a convict’s seed—would follow, marking Javert as his own. Not a guard with whip and baton to keep a brute like Valjean in line, but something lower, something lesser; something Valjean could keep and possess and claim, as often as he wished, whenever he wanted—

And Javert was stifling his cries, turning his head and fist to the side to bury in his thin pillow. His hips jerked as his release erupted over his hand, his strokes uneven as he wrung out the last few splashes of spunk; barely cognizant of the fact he had dirtied his blanket by not grabbing for his handkerchief in time. Javert squeezed his cock for one final pulse, his fingers sticky and his mind distant, drowsy, the sleep he had yearned for already closing in with a rapid descent of jumbled thoughts and heavy limbs.

Javert released his cock as his touch grew too intense for the oversensitive skin, his dirty hand fumbling beneath his bed for a cloth to wipe himself clean. And somewhere beneath his breast, his wooden heart creaked and groaned; his embarrassment in giving into the desire for self-abuse eclipsed by the mortifying shame of what he had thought of, what he had thought he wanted—with a convict, of all things—and the knowledge that this had not been the first time. 

The fear that this might not be the last.

The pleasant haze following his release cooled and dwindled rapidly as Javert dabbed himself clean and tucked the soiled handkerchief out of sight to be discreetly washed later. The nausea he had felt to imagine Valjean returned with a vengeance, and it was only the dizzied, beckoning call of his much-delayed rest that allowed Javert to push aside the simmering morass of humiliation and discontent, to slide into the growing vertigo of unconsciousness. He gave another shuffle against the bed, pulling his nightshirt down his body once again. His breath fluttered the collar of his shirt and a sweaty tangle of hair pressed against his cheek as Javert rolled back over onto his side.

Javert tucked one hand beneath his pillow, forcibly trying to distance himself from the reality, the knowledge of touching himself to the idea of Jean Valjean’s—of 24601’s—large, muscled body picking Javert up and taking him apart. It had only been for the sake of ending that ridiculous indulgence; there had been no other reason. It did not matter, nor did it mean anything, what Javert thought of for the sake of swiftly obtaining his release. Any wild thought could be appealing when blood heated and raged beneath skin, when a firm hand reached for tender flesh. It was no more significant than an errant dream. It had no bearing on anything Javert would usually think about, anything Javert would usually want.

It meant nothing.

Javert kept his eyes firmly closed, awareness unspooling into the darkness of sleep, and he did not dream.