Title: Holy Revival
Work ID: 51493195
Author: PoemAboutCitylights
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Enemies to Lovers, Realisations, Javert's Confused Boner (Les Misérables), Hand Jobs, First Kiss, First Time, Bible Quotes, Tight Spaces, Coming In Pants, Trapped In A Closet, (not really) - Freeform, Long-Haired Javert is essential for my sanity, romantic feelings
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
“Whoever conceals their sins does not prosper, but the one who confesses and renounces them finds mercy,” Valjean quotes, spreading heat even through the fabric of Javert’s shirt, “a beating heart is a heart capable of love, Javert.”“You do not know my heart,” he gasps and finds Valjean looking up at him.
OR: the one where Valjean and Javert find themselves hiding between two walls in the aftermaths of the night at the barricade and Javert doesn't quite manage to arrest Valjean

Work text:

For the first time in his life, Javert wishes it would have taken him longer to take Valjean custody. That instead of meeting him at 55 Rue Plumet in the way he had promised, the former convict would have bolted again. Javert knows how chasing Valjean works, it’s what he has done all his life – at least that is what it feels like, after days at the barricade, with his aging muscles aching and body sore from where the rope had cut into his skin. Truth be told, now that Valjean is standing next to him in the street, with his white curls damp from when Javert had allowed him to wash the stink of the sewers off him, he doesn’t really know what to do with the man. It seems like Valjean can see it in his face, for he keeps sending him hesitant glances that are more irritating than Javert would like to admit.

Paris is still coated in dark, the distant light of a street lamp the only thing illuminating the convict’s broad frame. Valjean shifts his weight from one leg to the other, growing visibly nervous and glancing around the alley. Perhaps he’s scared the girl has followed them here, unaware as she is. “I have told you before - …” Valjean starts, lifting his still bare wrists suggestively, and Javert feels his great coat moving around his legs when he jumps forward, baring his teeth at the other man.“You shut up now, Valjean,” he growls into his face, finding nothing but confusion in the older one’s eyes. “You have come to arrest me, Javert,” Valjean says, his voice calmer than his face would make one think, “let us not pretend you won’t.” Javert bares his teeth again in an ugly snarl, reaching out his hands to yank Valjean up by the collar of his coat, “You do not get to tell me what to do, Valjean.”The words come out in a sneer and Javert is aware of the wild impression he must make right now – like a starving beast jumping its prey. “Not after what you have done to me,” he adds, his voice shaking, his paling knuckles still curled around the other man’s coat. They are alone in the alley, the citizens of Paris either asleep or smart enough not to leave their houses yet, with gunpowder still lingering in the air.

Once again, confusion flashes across Valjean’s face and Javert releases him abruptly, feeling an ugly laugh crawl up his throat. It echoes back from the empty street, making Valjean flinch, which Javert doesn’t miss, for his eyes barely leave the other man long enough to do so. He can’t help but raise an accusing finger at him, gritting his teeth until his jaw hurts. “You had no right, no right at all to do what you have done, Jean Valjean.”He intends to spit the other man’s name out but instead, it barely leaves his tongue, dying somewhere between his teeth. “Are you speaking about sparing your life?” Valjean asks, disbelief in his tone, and when Javert sends him a deathly glare, the man just laughs. “All his… because I refused to add another body to the pile tonight?”Javert makes a step back towards the older one, his hands twitching by his side, but this time, he stops himself from yanking Valjean up again, and lets them form fists instead. From up close, Valjean suddenly looks tired, his shoulders sinking down a little, and Javert’s tongue turns heavy in his mouth.

“Just arrest me and let us both get some sleep, Javert,” Valjean says, his chin tilted upwards, and he stares at the man. Great sleep that would be, he thinks, on a cold floor of a cell at the precinct. “What is it you are waiting for?” the older one then wants to know and Javert bares his teeth again. “Shut up, I said,” he snaps, “I need time to think.” He runs a hand through his hair somewhat desperately, several strands falling out of his queue, but he has stopped caring about his appearance a while ago. Let it match the turmoil in his soul, he thinks. “Whatever would you need to think about?” Valjean asks and Javert stares at him and thinks of the river. It had been either he river or coming to 55 Rue Plumet and both had filled Javert with an equal amount of dread. He opens his mouth, about to tell Valjean that it is none of his business at all, when a noise suddenly makes both of them flinch.

Javert straightens immediately, turning around to locate the source, when shadows appear at the other end of the alley. The light of a distant oil lamp are painting them against a wall, not actually in perceptible vision yet, like Plato’s cave come to life. “We should - …” “Shhh,” Javert hisses and it must be the years of working as an Inspector of the law, years of training his instincts, that all of a sudden make goose bumps spread on his skin. Valjean’s ears must have caught the voice at about the same time, his face growing pale.

“I tell you, it was him, that old bastard,” the man around the corner says, and Javert feels disgust well up in him at its familiarity, “he was covered in shit from head to toe.” “How does that - …”“There is always money where that man is, believe me. He must be in the area.”

Two men, probably more. In less than a few seconds, they will turn around the corner and spot Valjean and him out in the open and from the look on Valjean’s face, Javert is not the only one who has recognised the voice. Thénardier. Lot like him never die, it’s always the maggots that survive everything. It’s the earliest lesson you learn in prison, Javert thinks bitterly.

Before he knows what he is doing, he has grabbed Valjean by the arm – which turns out to be harder than expected, for that man is all muscle and heat – to shove him into the small gap between two houses. He ends up with his feet between Valjean’s, standing in front of the other man with barely enough room for his ribcage to expand when he breathes. It is dark between the houses, with just enough light falling in from the street for him to make out Valjean’s face right in front of him. There is a haunted look in his eyes and Javert wills him to be silent.

He wonders what is going on in Valjean’s head right now, if he is thinking about trying to flee, making use of the fact that Javert hasn’t been able to put handcuffs on him yet. He would run straight into Thénardier and his men if he tried to bolt now, but then again, could a bunch of criminals really do worse to Valjean than Javert would, if he were to hand him over to the police by the end of the night? Thénardier is after money while Javert has always been after Valjean’s liberty. He has a feeling which one the man values more.

He reaches out for Valjean’s wrists, curling his hands around them just to be sure. It draws a quiet huff from the older one, painfully loud in the quiet space of their hiding place, and Javert winces silently. Despite the strain of the past days, Valjean is the stronger man – his grip on him would do little to hold him, should he start to run.

“Millions, I’m telling you,” Thénardier says, several metres away, and Valjean presses his eyes shut. They’re standing so close to each other that Javert can feel the other man’s breath against his throat. “It’s time someone finally milks that cow,” someone else says and Javert feels his fingers twitching with the need to arrest the whole bunch of them. But he is on his own, with no back up, and, ironically, he does not want to get himself killed by the hands of criminals.

“We are like mice in a trap,” Valjean whispers, tilting his head in a way that seems to include their hideaway between the houses, “one glance to the side and they will spot us.” “Shut up,” Javert hisses for what feels like the tenth time tonight, but Valjean is right, of course. There’s only one entrance to the small gap they’re in, with the houses meeting each other to their other side, and the younger one feels his heartbeat spiking at the realisation. He doesn’t even have his pistol on him, cursing Pontmercy in his thoughts.

“Maybe we should just run,” Valjean proposes, “to catch them by surprise and escape before they recognise me.” He is speaking so lowly that Javert feels the other man’s voice more than he can hear it, the vibration of it spreading through his whole body, strongest where he is touching the other man with his hands around his wrists and their feet touching in the dark. “There are at least three of them,” Javert’s own voice is barely more than a breath and it is hard to focus his eyes on Valjean’s face when he is standing so close to him. He thinks he can feel the older one’s quick heartbeat even through the layers of their clothes.

“Then again, 24601 could - …”Valjean shuts him up with a glare, his jaw set with determination. “I will not shed any more blood,” he whispers, his voice trembling, as does his chest. It sends a shiver through Javert’s body. The younger one huffs quietly, trying to pull back from the other man, but there is no space to do so. “You could outrun them, I am certain.”“Then they would just find you here,” Valjean says, a shadow ghosting over his face, “Thénardier is capable of killing a man.”

A man being Javert, which the inspector does not doubt for one second. He feels cold sweat forming in his neck, his throat hurting when he swallows in fear. “Especially a police officer,” Valjean adds quietly and Javert can’t help but shiver. He opens his mouth, wants to snap something about how Valjean would be glad if Javert were to die tonight, for he would finally be free then, but there’s something in the other man’s eyes that makes him close his mouth again. He thinks about Valjean cutting the ropes that had bound him and he closes his eyes, turning his face away from the man, the wall of the house cold against his cheek while his breath quickens in his chest.

“There are more bodies in the sewers,” Thénardier is saying at the moment, “bunch of rich brats, these revolutionists.” His words are followed by several steps that sound like they’re growing distant, but Javert’s heart is beating too fast beneath his ribs to be sure. He can hear his own blood rushing in his ears, mixing with the sound of his own and Valjean’s desperate breathing.

“I think they’re leaving,” Valjean whispers, his breath tingling Javert’s chin when he speaks. “It could be a trick,” he presses out, “they might have caught sight of us already.” Where the wall is cold against his back and his cheek, Valjean’s body pressing against his is hot, making sweat pool underneath Javert’s coat. He must have been thorough when he had washed himself earlier, for the stink of the sewers has left his body entirely, and the only thing Javert can smell now is soft soap and the scent he has identified as Valjean long ago.It is scary how well he knows the man and how it seems like he does not know him at all, not after he has saved his life at the barricade.

The memory sends another shiver through Javert’s body and he jumps when he suddenly feels Valjean’s hand against his arm, unsure when the former convict has escaped his grip around his wrists. “Is everything alright?” Valjean asks and Javert looks back at him at last, a hysteric laugh tingling his tongue. He stares at the older one in disbelief. “You won’t die tonight, Javert,” Valjean then says, his voice firm, and Javert flashes his teeth. “That is of no concern to me,” he hisses quietly, “I can still take that matter into my own hands.”Valjean looks up at him, realization slowly clouding his eyes. The grip on Javert’s arm intensifies with it. “Do you really value your own life so little?” Valjean asks him, his voice so quiet that Javert almost would have missed it. In the shadows of their trap, Valjean’s eyes gleam with something the younger one can’t make sense of. “I value justice, Valjean. You of all people should know that,” he gets out, feeling like his head is starting to spin. Suddenly, he is glad for the solid wall in his back, no less solid than Valjean’s warm body pressing against his other side. He’s not sure which of the two it is that is holding him up. “You once told me that it is easy to be kind,” Valjean whispers, “and that the difficulty is being just.”

Javert remembers that conversation, as he does most of theirs. “You were mistaken,” Valjean continues, his voice a vibration in Javert’s chest. The older man draws in a deep breath, his white hair glowing in the dark like a halo.“You do not wish to arrest me,” he says quietly and Javert flinches, his heart beating frantically in his chest. “It would not be just,” Javert whispers, his voice sounding distant to his own ears, “and yet, it means I have failed the law.”“Justice is in the eyes of God,” Valjean replies, his words a gust of warm breath against Javert’s neck, “The Lord will judge his people.”The quote falls easy from Valjean’s lips, filling the darkness around them, and Javert wonders not for the first time how a man such as Jean Valjean can have such deep trust in a God that must have failed him all his life.

“Whoever says to the guilty, ‘you are innocent,’ will be cursed by peoples and denounced by nations,” Javert replies, his tongue weak, “the Lord loves righteousness and justice.”He feels Valjean’s heavy gaze on him, “Do not burden yourself with what the law of the people fails to see, Javert. In God’s law, there is mercy and there is love.”“If your words are true, do you not see how I have failed God, then?” Javert asks, his breath caught in his throat, “I either fail the law of men or the law of God, there is no escape from it for me.”

“Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy,” Valjean says, the words falling off his lips like a quiet prayer. “For the Lord loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. Wrongdoers will be completely destroyed, the offspring of the wicked will perish,” Javert counters, feeling his own guilt deep in his bones. He should have chosen the river, he thinks. The law has no space for him anymore. “Mercy triumphs over judgement, Javert,” Valjean murmurs. Javert lets out a stifled laugh that comes out broken. “I know that quote as well as you do,” he says, his ribcage tightening, “because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful.”

He hears Valjean draw in a breath before the older one’s hand tightly clasps his arm again, his presence suddenly seeming to fill the entirety of the confined space between the walls. “It is not too late for you, Javert. I know you have mercy in you, you have shown it to me already. Show it to yourself also. Mercy, peace and love be yours in abundance,” there is something desperate in Valjean’s quiet breath now and Javert suddenly wonders what would have happened if he had indeed leapt into the Seine – if the other man’s hands would have dragged him right back to the surface. “I know nothing of these,” Javert says and then he flinches, the back of his head hitting the wall behind him, when Valjean’s warm hand spreads across his chest, finding the spot where his heart is beating frantically underneath his skin.

“Whoever conceals their sins does not prosper, but the one who confesses and renounces them finds mercy,” Valjean quotes, spreading heat even through the fabric of Javert’s shirt, “a beating heart is a heart capable of love, Javert.” “You do not know my heart,” he gasps and finds Valjean looking up at him. “I know you saved a foolish boy’s life tonight when the law would have required you to arrest him instead, for you knew he is loved,” Valjean says and Javert pulls a face, feeling his own actions twisted by Valjean’s mouth. “And I know you do not want to arrest me,” Valjean whispers, “for you have learned to temper justice with kindness.” Valjean’s hand against his chest would have had the same effect if he had closed it around Javert’s throat, he thinks, for he can barely breathe any longer.“I know more than you think,” the man says and as if to underline his words, he increases the pressure of his hand against Javert’s chest. “You know nothing of me,” the younger one mumbles but the words ring false in his own ears. Valjean looks at him as if he sees right through him.

“Perhaps I know your heart better than you do yourself, Inspector,” Valjean breathes, his eyes filled with a divine determination that traps Javert between the other man’s body and the wall. “Love is hard to spot for the untrained eye,” he mumbles, “I was blind myself until my soul was bought for God by a bishop. Blind still until Cosette taught me the meaning of love much later.”Javert stares back at Valjean, heat rushing through every cell of his body. He knows nothing of love and yet, he is sure it is not this, the warmth in Valjean’s voice when he speaks of his daughter so unlike the fire that is flowing in Javert’s veins.

He would have thought that there is no way for them to possibly stand any closer but then Valjean moves against him and oh, Javert thinks, his mind going blank. The fire in his veins seems to be curling up in his stomach, pooling below his navel where he can now feel Valjean against his thigh, sending a wave of both panic and pleasure through Javert’s body. It is a sensation unlike anything he has felt before and he catches Valjean’s surprised gasp when he seems to find confirmation in Javert’s own body, the older one’s eyes glowing up at Javert in the dark.

The younger one holds his breath, his heart beating so fast that his field of vision seems to darken some more around the edges. “Javert,” Valjean gasps, moving against him again, and Javert feels like a star-filled night sky spreads out in front of his eyes when he feels Valjean’s length against his own trough the layers of their clothes. “Do you want me to add another sin to my record?” Javert breathes out, desperation in his tone, yet he can’t help but reach out for Valjean’s shoulders when heat rushes through his body again at the smallest of movement. “No,” Valjean says, a quiet pant dropping from his lips, “to love could never be a sin.” “You do not love me,” Javert gasps, his hand finding the back of Valjean’s neck against his own will. It is glowing hot against his palm, the skin soft where he can feel scars appearing. “This is not love,” Javert gets out, unable to stop himself from pushing his hips against Valjean’s. He has never done anything like this before, has never felt closer to losing his mind than in this very moment. “Are you sure?” Valjean asks quietly, his heart beating against Javert’s where their chests are now joined, before he leans up to capture Javert’s lips in a kiss.

It comes as a shock to the younger one, who closes his eyes on instinct, the hand in the older man’s neck drawing him closer still. It is clumsy and awkward and filled with a desperation that Javert recognises from all the years that he has been hunting the man in his arms. It takes his breath away, leaves him shaking and squirming and helpless, and then Valjean’s tongue parts his lips and Javert feels himself falling.

He is caught by the feeling of Valjean’s arms around his back, by the irresistible heat of the other man’s mouth, by the touch of his tongue against his own and the taste of the him that becomes the only thing that Javert can focus on. It is too much and yet not enough at the same time, Valjean’s mouth soft and hot and hungry, making sparks explode behind Javert’s closed lids every time that their tongues brush, gentle and tentative at first and heated shortly after. He can feel Valjean’s hands in his hair, tugging on the ribbon until it falls away, his strands falling into his face. Valjean’s nose slides against his own and his hips press him further into the wall, making Javert release a shocked pant that gets swallowed up by the other man’s hot mouth immediately. When they draw apart for a moment, it is because both of them have to gasp for air, Javert’s forehead falling against Valjean’s shoulder. He feels like his legs will fail him any second, perhaps have done so already, and he buries his face against the man’s neck when Valjean’s length meets his again through their clothing.

“Therefore what God has joined, let no one separate,” Valjean mumbles into his hair and Javert’s entire body flushes, for he would not have thought that the holy word could sound as obscene as it does when it is formed by this man’s lips. “I-I have never understood - …” Valjean gasps, but before Javert can ask what Valjean has never understood, the older one is quoting again, “the curves of your thighs are like jewellery, the handiwork of a master.”His hands find Javert’s hips, resting on them for a moment while the inspector barely manages to catch his breath, his vision swimming in front of him. “If it is a sin, Javert, it is tempered with enough love to be forgiven,” Valjean whispers and then his fingers find the waistband of his trousers, a question in the hesitant motion of his hand. “Allow m- …”“Yes,” Javert gets out before Valjean can even finish his request. He is desperate and he is damned and to hell with it all, Javert thinks. This man is his undoing but that is nothing he has not known before.

“Only, I have never - …” Javert gasps when Valjean’s warm fingers meet the skin of his lower stomach in the dark, his lips brushing over the skin of the older one’s neck.“Neither have I,” Valjean admits and Javert feels both relief and anticipation rush through his body at the words, making him feel lightheaded. “But it cannot be so different from - …” Valjean trails off, his neck heating up, and Javert suddenly feels like he will come in his pants like a schoolboy just from imagining Valjean stroking himself, in Toulon or in M-sur-M or in his hideaway in Paris. The realization that it is rarely the first time Javert’s brain has conjured such an image makes him shudder all over again.

“I will - … if you don’t - …”Valjean seems to understand what he means, for he hurries with Javert’s trousers now, while Javert simultaneously reaches out for the older one. The first time that Valjean’s warm fingers brush against his length, Javert almost collapses against him, were it not for Valjean’s other hand around his waist. He presses his lips against the older one’s neck to stifle the desperate sounds that threaten to spill over, not realising that he has bitten Valjean’s skin until the man lets out a groan that makes Javert squirm against him.

When Valjean wraps his hand around him, Javert thinks he will come on the spot, the muscles of his thighs tightening. He tries to focus on freeing Valjean out of his own pants, the other man’s pleasure hot and hard against his fingers, and then both of them start moving their hands at the same time. “Look at me, Javert,” Valjean whispers, and it is the use of his name more than anything else that makes Javert thrust up into the hand closing around him. He feels like he is falling apart under the other man’s gaze, who whispers his name again into the dark and now quiet night. He has never heard his name said like that, Valjean’s eyes wide and filled with disbelief, yet hazy with something that makes Javert push into his hand again. It should be disgraceful, he thinks, should be shameful what they are doing, but when Valjean says his name again and moves his thumb over his wet slit, Javert feels a warmth in his chest that has nothing to do with the heat in his loins.

He is unsure when he has started saying Valjean’s name in return, only suddenly becomes aware of his own voice, of the Jean that has started to mix with Javert, until he is no longer sure who is saying which. There is heat and Valjean’s hand around him and Valjean’s gaze on him and then there are the other man’s lips again, capturing his own in a kiss that seems to knock the world off its axis. The man of mercy, he thinks and then he feels like heat is exploding in his body, pushing him over the edge and clinging to Valjean with his heart beating in his throat, the older one shaking in his arms.

They are clinging to each other, he realizes a few seconds later, holding Valjean upright just as much as the other man is holding him, and then he can’t help the sob that escapes his lips. They are both breathing heavily for several more seconds, their warm spend slowly drying between them, and Javert inhales the scent of the other man, of the convict that he wishes not to release for entirely different reasons now. Or perhaps, he is simply seeing them for what they are for the first time, he thinks, while Valjean’s warm hand captures his jaw.

“Come home with me, Javert,” the older one mumbles, meeting his gaze, and Javert leans into the touch. He would follow the man anywhere, he thinks.