Title: Dammit
Work ID: 51525244
Author: Breadvidence
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Alternate Universe - Javert Survives, Alternate Universe - Valjean Survives, Alternate Universe - A Lot of People Survive Actually, Fix-It, Post-Seine
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 4/?

Summary:
Two suicidal old men with moral scrupulosity in a three-legged potato sack race towards domesticity. Dallas 2014/Brick crossover, all adaptation decisions arbitrary.

Work text:

The smell of Betadine—ah,  Christ! He should’ve picked a higher bridge. But—was it predictable? After a lifetime believing himself on an unassailable height, here he is: still a poor judge of distances. 

 

⁂

 

Jean Valjean cannot rest. He is the animal brought to ground, heels damped by the hot breath of its hunter, who feels in its trembling breast the urge to turn and receive those terrible exhalations on its face. On the second day, he hears the noise of wheels in the driveway and waits in satisfied despair for the siren’s whoop. It is Cosette. He becomes prey of a different kind, now, to the questions she won’t ask of him, and the questions she waits for him to ask. What he offers, with his whereabouts during the riot a Charybdis and her history with the boy a Scylla, is to pretend they have already passed through this Strait of Messina, and beat oars in open waters: that is, he asks: “How is he?”

And so she chatters about Marius’ health with no acknowledgment that he has ever been her secret, or that her papa has uncovered it without her consent. He would rather a police interrogation. As when a particle catches the sun as it sinks into deep waters, so there is for him the flash of awareness that the silences are—what?—the particle is gone, and the illumination too fleeting; the man remains uneasy, but unenlightened; he ascribes his uneasiness to the buried topic, and not its burying.

They smile for each other, when she leaves for hospital visiting hours. Her embrace is tight and makes his sore muscles wake and moan, to which he gives no voice. Alone again, Jean Valjean falls to brooding. He fetches his phone.

Crowd control for the protest drew resources from all the surrounding precincts, so it takes three calls before he is told—Yes—Officer Javert?—Yes—well, not today; he’s not in today. When—? Well—! You’re a friend of his…? You didn’t hear—? He hangs up, hasty and less polite than is fair. Sweat on his hands makes the touchscreen of his phone half-unresponsive, B ylor h pital n m er, but it’s enough for Google to bring it up. The receptionist wants to know the patient’s full name, sir, and what about his date of birth? 

He’s more polite this time,  sorry, take care, thank you.

Jean Valjean does not ask for favors. He makes a call anyway. One might wonder how Father Herbert manages the confessional—might imagine him exclaiming  You did what! in answer to a parishioner’s sins—and the man shows no unusual subtlety in his expressions of shock that Jean Valjean should make a request of him, but he’s willing all the same. A priest is due his flock even under the rules of HIPAA, and Valjean has remembered rightly that Javert is Catholic. Father Herbert texts him the room number in the evening.

Cosette does not visit him the next day, thoroughly caught up in  that boy, for which he tells himself he’s glad. He does not know how he would explain going to the hospital, or Javert, or the possible consequences, and expects he would remain silent even in her presence, which he knows to be an unkindness. Traffic is slow across the Margaret McDermott, the road rain-wetted and fog heavy on the face of the river, though the storms passed with the morning. He claws his fingers into the steering wheel, notices, releases them with a shock. It’s all of fifteen minutes—is that not close enough?

He will not recall later where he parks, or the route he takes to the correct unit.

The charge nurse recognizes him from Baylor’s yearly blood drive, and she alarms him with a warm greeting—he doesn’t like the recognition. Doesn’t want to trade on it. Does so. “Aileen,” he reads off her name tag. “So good to see you.” Pleasantries. Apologies. He is not present in himself even as he speaks and listens. There’s a man—yes, very sick, to be on this unit. No, not family. No one who would list him on their advanced directive, no. But, could he—? 

The name loosens her uncertainty. “Ah,  that  guy. I shouldn’t tell you—well. I don’t count a uniformed officer as a visitor, so  I  say he’s had none. You’re not close? Well, you’re kind. Is he normally so—I mean—is it the  situation that has him…?”

When it becomes clear she wants badly to know, he offers a smile of the saddest species.

“Never mind,” she replies, in the tone of one who understands. She might think that being a suicide has maddened Javert, or that he has always been a bastard, but in either case she is satisfied. “I’ll show you to him.” 

Thirteen years gone, and the sounds of the hospital are still just echoes of Fantine’s last days. For all he saw the man days ago he expects the Javert of  then: hair still more dark than gray, in uniform, sidearm in his hand—braced in a doorway, terrible in joy—struggling up from the floor with blood on his face. It is a shock when he is none of these things, but a long lank mass of flesh in a hospital bed. His sheets are rucked down and his gown rucked up, revealing the blued ladder of ribs, sick yellowish belly, curve of purple-mottled buttock, and there low on his pelvis the disconcerting glare of a lopsided rottweiler tattoo. His modesty is preserved as much by Valjean’s refusal to see as by fabric. Aileen tsks and sets him right.

“He’s on fifteen minute checks, I swear,” she says, in a tone which indicates the swear she means is  fuck . 

Javert speaks, and though the volume is low, the words confused, the voice is familiar. Comfortingly? No; but it is good to know that in this abased body there is yet the spirit of the man, fractious.

“Well, it’s good of you to have left your lines alone,” Aileen returns, tartly. “Now, look, Ultime is here to see you.” 

“Ultime,” he spits, as if the name is vile in his mouth. He has never heard it, or in any case never in the context of Jean Valjean. Evidently he retains his ability to be hateful over nothing. The curiosity that seemed equally elemental to the man—that has quitted him; he does not turn his head.

Aileen moves the visitor’s chair forward and, with a wry smile, leaves. To sit at his ease seems impossible, but to hover—the uncertainty does not suit him. He has not come here in fear. He sits. For some time they are quiet together. Jean Valjean ventures, at last, to say the man’s name. 

Javert’s head moves loosely on his neck; his gaze lacks astonishment, his lips are pursed. “Again,” he mutters, as if to himself. “Sure. Why not!”

Black reverie has brought Jean Valjean to this hospital room, not thought. The unpleasant process of waking begins. 

“When I looked for you—where were you?—nowhere. Well, in custody already, dead, whatever. I’d get over it. Then you’d turn up underfoot like a fucking LEGO piece. Or like a—a rock in your shoe, but when you take the shoe off and shake it, nothing comes out—and you put it back on—and the rock is  still there .” The hands he frees from underneath the blanket shake. He does not seem to know what he meant to do with them; they grasp at nothing. “Here you are, then, even though I don’t have my shoes. So! what do you want?”

“You said you would wait,” he says.

“I lied, evidently.” His face is swollen—not bruised, but retaining fluid—and the effect is unkind. The grimace he makes would have been awful of itself. “I didn’t think, when I said it—I didn’t think about lying. You had nowhere to run. What does that matter, though?  I did the running. Didn’t expect you’d chase, though. Are you gloating? No; my instincts are all wrong. Here to dispense kindness, that’s what it is. Going to pay my hospital bills? Don’t bother. Those are a dead man’s debts, and there’s no next-of-kin who will have to pick up the tab.”

Jean Valjean waits for Javert to ask another question for himself to answer. The memory is faint—he recalls mostly how it felt to watch from outside himself as he was denounced and saved and damned, and it has been  over a decade  —but he recalls that in an extremity of emotion this man does not need a partner to converse. Can’t remember the words spoken, only the sense:  Ah, this is very strange. On the second iteration, it is still strange. He is less annoyed, now. He has nowhere to be.

“Well?” asks Javert.

“Ah,” says Jean Valjean. This proves inadequate to draw a response. He admits, “I don’t understand you or your actions.”

In a low, aching voice, Javert says, “I couldn’t see the river.” He pauses for a long while, then goes on, “I let you go, you son of a bitch. I felt my fingers open. In fact—I never touched you. God, God, I’m embarrassed. I’m like a dog licking your fucking criminal hand. Do you feel it?”

“What?” Jean Valjean remembers the man’s touch on his shoulder, forebears to mention it. “No.” 

“Pay attention.” Javert looks into Jean Valjean’s face with the eyes of a man who stares directly into the sun, pupils gone to nothing. It is the opiates. It should be very easy to tell what color his irises are, but under the terrible hospital lights they seem to be no color at all. “I can’t breathe.”

Jean Valjean looks with some concern at the monitors, which tell him that Javert’s ox-sat is at ninety-eight percent. 

“You want to know why I have done it? There is something beyond duty,” Javert whispers to him. “I think it may be named  mercy. Or mercy is a part of it.” His face, not being made for grief, looks instead furious, even as he begins to weep. “I don’t know. I feel it, but I don’t understand. Ah, no! I  do know—you should have shot me. I should have yelled for those boys to shoot me.”

“You aren’t making sense,” Jean Valjean says. Despairs.

“You would know,” snips Javert, “about not making sense. You’ve fucked sense.”

Jean Valjean watches the compressed peaks of the man’s heart rate and wonders if he should fetch a nurse.

“Fucked it,” Javert mutters. Then he clasps his hands over his breastbone in an attitude of dignity, for all his wretched expression, his tears. “Go on, then. You aren’t arrested, are you? I can’t arrest you, anymore. I accomplished that much—wrong kind of termination, but it’ll do, for now.” He adds, with the tone of those who are deeply in the fog of drugs but have briefly found themselves in a place of clarity, “Actually, I doubt the paperwork is cleared yet, but  functionally I am not an officer anymore.”  

“I see why there are fifteen minute checks.” 

“They are fair,” Javert agrees. One of his hands moves to touch his ribs, flutters, settles. Their rise and fall is uneven from emotion or injury. 

They sit in silence until the nurse comes for the check, but she only glances with surprise at Jean Valjean before withdrawing. He is glad; he has never taken it well, how they would drug Fantine out of her grief to better manage her. He is, also, not glad: it seems there should be relief for the terrible pain on this man’s face, which he understands to be connected to himself—how else, with those eyes fixed on him?—yet beyond any ability of his to touch. Is this the time for a discourse on suicide? It is a sin, and he is not unread on the topic. Yet it seems cruel and obscurely unfair to bring the shade of Judas Iscariot to this room. 

The silence, the smell of sickness, the grieving glare.

“So,” says Jean Valjean, “no APB, then?” 

“No.” 

“That’s good of you,” Jean Valjean lies, who thinks it the act of a madman. 

This impression is not alleviated when Javert begins to laugh, waxy face flushing red. “I know,” he gasps. “It’s  terrible.” He gags, chokes, he’s hurt himself.

With guilt-ridden relief for the interruption, Jean Valjean presses the call button.

 

⁂

 

How intolerable, to be alive and visited by fools. 

First that boy, Grosch, who proves they will put anyone in uniform these days—yes, he’ll even think poorly of his fellow officers; that’s what he’s become.  Who pushed you, sir?—  an idiot’s question.  We’ll find them. There isn’t even satisfaction in the memory of his response when Javert declared “he’s here!”, as Grosch had the temerity to be confused rather than shocked,  What do you mean, sir? Then the verbal fumbling, offensive questions—why does the precinct even pay for sensitivity training, when the officers absorb so little of the lessons? Disgraceful. 

Then—Valjean. But he does not have the right to call the man a fool, does he? He’s the one who lacks understanding. Probably. His opinion wavers. The thought comforts him that there will be no repeat of the visit, since the experience was surely as unpleasant for Valjean as for himself.

He ought to know the world contains no comfort. Not the next day—he is aware of a second surgery, if unsure of the specifics—not, he thinks, the next either—and here’s the nurse bitching at him about his IV line before she says, “Your friend has come to visit again.”

Those white curls bother Javert. The man’s official description still identifies him as gray-haired; the change dates from after his second arrest. He holds a tablet, an iPad, one of the new thin models, with which he fiddles as he sits down. “Hello, Javert.” 

He provides an appropriate pause for a response, but there are too many words pressing at the inside of Javert’s skull, and inconveniently none of them are the man’s current alias. A sniveling part of him wants to say  Mr. Madeleine, that name which represents something simpler, if little less painful.

Apologetic, Valjean goes on, “I heard you didn’t have many visitors. I thought nobody might have been by to drop off anything for you to do. I remember how bored—ah. I know how boring hospitals can be.” He holds out the tablet.

“Goddamnit,” Javert says.

Content notes: suicidal ideation, medical setting

[EDITED 12/2/23] Fixed a localization error. Added dialogue at end.

He who takes notes while he leans upon the steps of the sepulcher does not set aside his habits merely because he chooses to stand, put his feet upon them, and betake himself through the door. Which is to say: Javert can remember the attempt with damnable clarity, and the hospitalization so far well enough. Pain and drugs muddle, but do not erase. He knows the cut on his knuckles is from the teeth of the first responder who dragged him from the Trinity, and  that  rests uneasily in his gut. The nurse who leaned close as they sheared off his clothes and repeated  your legs are broken, sir—your legs are broken—stop trying to stand—your legs are broken—she doesn’t work on his ward, but he hears her voice sometimes out in the halls, and he would recognize her face. He could repeat the words, shouted in a drowned-hoarse voice, he felt were necessary commentary when he woke from his first bout of unconsciousness to find himself catheterized, fixated on the sight of the bag full of red fluid which hung from the side of the hospital bed.  Kidneys, of all fucking organs to take the fall hard.

It was on the morning of Valjean’s first visit when he, as coherent as might be expected through the dilaudid and haloperidol, received the disagreeable news of his ineffectiveness. No, he certainly wouldn’t die.

The surgeon praised his own work as he numbered the pedicle screws and rods which fix together Javert’s pelvis and lumbar spine, unironic when he called him a lucky man. “If your legs weren’t in pieces,” he said, “we’d have you up on your feet already.” Tricks of force and chance of angles, the fall spared his skull entirely and chest and abdomen more or less, a few ribs fractured on the right where he skewed to the side after his feet entered the water, internal damage limited to contusions where there might have been organs lacerated and vessels torn. The surgeon added, “Oh, you’ll need knee replacement before seventy. Not because of the jump—they’re just terrible. Wearing out. You a runner?”

Sometimes he thinks,  If I were noncompliant with the physiotherapist, I could throw a DVT and die that way. He cannot bring himself to be noncompliant. He thinks:  I should have shot myself. But he has been present at a failed suicide of  that  kind and can’t shake those memories now any better than when he took his sidearm out of its holster and decided to lay it on the parapet rather than put the muzzle in his mouth. At least he still has a goddamn face. He expresses this to the psychiatrist, who is the one doctor he doesn’t please, and gets no response except for an increase in dosage; he tries it with the therapist, too, though he is suspicious of her authority, and less inclined to make an effort. He has the uneasy sense, a thought that is like an object touched in muddy waters, that what she asks him to  do  —reflect on his reasons—is precisely the opposite of what will accomplish what she  wants—his avoiding future high velocity impacts with water.

At the end of the first week, he conducts a tense conversation by phone with Gisquet about whether the email he sent on the sixth in fact qualifies as a resignation and learns that his confidence in his prompt severance is unfounded; it’s a union job; there’s disability law; of course he  will not  be a member of law enforcement, but  at present—he holds the phone away from his face and hyperventilates about an officer’s obligations vis-a-vis known criminals in their hospital rooms. Gisquet continues to speak, and his sense of duty to the man throttles down panic enough for him to participate in the next unpleasant turn of the conversation, namely Gisquet’s apology for his  response  to the email, written and sent prior to his awareness of the  situation— Javert has not read it yet, in any case. Gisquet expresses his regrets. Precisely what he regrets is unclear. He praises Javert’s career in funereal terms. Given Javert’s clear knowledge of his debasement in matters of justice, the implication of this praise unsettles him.

Valjean’s visit the next morning goes poorly.

Yes—a hell experienced not quite daily—here, a man. They do not say anything of significance to each other because Valjean does not ask and Javert does not know how to offer. Regardless, while he watches the hospital walls breathe in long nights disrupted by too much light and frequent nurse checks, he paws through their words and seeks—fuck! God knows what. 

He finds, in memory, that he calls the man  sir, though he never notices at the time. 

He finds Valjean’s kindness. So many offers of little comforts, of practical help.  Would you like a cup of coffee. There’s a sandwich shop downstairs if you want something other than hospital food. I brought a long cord for the tablet. Do you have houseplants that need to be watered. I can get your mail for you. 

Today, “The nurses said you could have some of your own clothes, so I brought back sweatpants.”

“You went through my dresser?” It’s so intrusive, he fumbles between his unease and his gratitude, and the words that fall from his mouth are, “Guess I’ll check when I’m home that my watch is still there.” He horrifies himself.

Valjean laughs. “Your expression is—something,” he excuses himself. “That was unkind, Javert, but you’re forgiven. Calm down.”

The laugh, the scold, the  forgiveness. Hunger—for which one—he does not know; something in him parts its jaws and slavers. Javert thinks this man might kill him where the river failed. He is comforted to know he keeps this from his eyes. Valjean would not make these visits, surely, if he could see—it; whatever  it is. 

 

⁂

 

Javert watches him with the eyes of a starved and beaten animal. Jean Valjean does not know if he is the meat, the cudgel, or the caressing hand, and derives little comfort from the awareness he is not alone in this uncertainty. He would leave the man to his suffering and call it kindness, but it has been two weeks and he is entangled. There have been no other visitors. One card,  Get Well Soon!, in the trashcan. 

Javert’s apartment is of a piece with this: a desk and no dining room table, one pillow on the bed, no photos on the walls. The cleanliness is noticeable, bleached grout, empty countertops, books in perfect alignment on the shelf next to a modest television set. When he turns on the latter, he expects Fox News and finds C-SPAN. In addition to condiments, there are two pre-made salads, a single raw chicken breast marinading in a ziplock, and a head of broccoli in the fridge, which he throws away. He scolds himself for being surprised that Javert would use spices other than pepper and salt.

“I cleared out your fridge,” he tells him.

Javert squints at him with much the same expression with which he greeted the sweatpants. “Did you. Well, make yourself at home, why don’t you.”

Jean Valjean thinks,  You never seem to have, but certainly wouldn’t  say anything. Maybe the suicide was planned for some time, and the apartment reflects a dying man’s conscientiousness to those who would have to clear out his things. 

“Thank you,” Javert adds, after too long a pause. 

“It’s nothing,” he says, before Javert can call him  sir. “Do you have an update on your discharge date?” 

He listens as Javert balances his desire to complain against his compliance with his medical team. It is ineffable. Jean Valjean has had a single hospital stay and he checked himself out against medical advice. He makes sympathetic noises. He pretends the nurses do not gossip to him. This man provides a—not quite  welcome—distraction from the process that is legitimizing the money Jean Valjean intends to pass on to Cosette. The riot has been a sharp reminder that each day he lives is another step closer to God, and while he hardly intends to put himself in the line of gunfire again, well. Other hazards aside, that depends upon the damn boy of hers. With all due respect to her choices. 

The liquid funds are a simple matter; he invokes old Fauchelevent’s name as if the man died with a penny in his pocket unspent. In the nineties and early aughts he falsified documents that are now long past discrediting, and  those  are of the essence in recovering the funds and property escheated to the state, which he has for over a decade allowed Texas to manage on his behalf.  It frets at him, to bring Jean Valjean’s and Fantine’s names into the light, and it is no small task to leave Ultime Fauchelevent’s entirely out of the matter. Little use in the process if he allows his fraudulent identity to become entangled. He rehearses his speech to Cosette:  no, I am not your father, but your mother left an estate to you, and—  

Perhaps he will be able to sidestep entirely the provenance of the estate itself.

He considers the numbers involved. It might be a slightly excessive graduation present. Maybe he will not call it that after all. He thinks: he ought to sell the house in Cedar Hill; he can find a property that costs much less to maintain, and so keep less of the money for himself. Cosette will not be so sad to lose her childhood home, surely, when she has left the city for medical school. It matters little that the idea hurts him. Such thoughts as these are what he escapes, coming to Baylor.

Abby greets him at the ward door with, “He’s on a tear,” so Jean Valjean turns back to the nurse station and cajoles coffee orders out of them, and goes with Jessica—who was almost on break, anyway—to fetch the cups up, as an apology that he hopes Javert will never learn about, for all it is on his behalf. 

He is in the wheelchair rather than the bed, tapping at the handrims, though he has nowhere to go. Instead of a greeting, he says, “I’ve got excellent news from my insurance company.” He’s furious, irony held dead between his bared teeth. “I’m ready to be discharged into the conveniently available hands of my loving family. Yes, I’ll be rolling through the front door of my own accessible single-level home by five o’ clock.”

Jean Valjean waits a moment for this to continue, but Javert has worked himself past snapping into a shivery silence. “I don’t recall your having a—” He forebears from the  loving. “—family.”

“What do you mean? I’ve had Mrs. Javert in my pocket this whole time.”

Jean Valjean props himself against the edge the bed and waits.

“I don’t need to be—” He waves his hand at the hospital room. “— here  . The doctors want me discharged to a—” His expression takes on the fixed solemnity it tends towards when his pride is hurt. “—skilled nursing facility. The insurance says,  No, there’s not high enough medical care needed. Well! I’m so terribly glad to hear my ability to shuffle my ass from a bed to a commode means I can walk up two flights of stairs. Yes, here I am without an IV, so there’s not a bit of medication management needed. In fact—” 

Abby comes through the door with an expression of fixed good cheer, as if Javert hasn’t broken off to stare at her with ill humor. “We need to move you back into bed, Mr. Javert. It’s been an hour.”

“It’s not a definite rule,” he snaps. “I’m fine. The pain’s not bad. You can go.”

Abby flushes and does so, but not without a despairing glance Jean Valjean’s way. 

“Javert,” says Jean Valjean with great mildness. “Have you considered that the nurses have your best interest in mind? You might be more polite.” 

“I hadn’t considered,” the man replies, in a stifled tone. “You’re right.”

Jean Valjean feels the hair prickle on the back of his neck. Javert was not like this in Montreuil; aside from the conflict over Fantine’s arrest he had the irritating habit of not arguing even where he clearly disagreed, but he avoided at the same time agreeing.  I hear what you’re saying, Mr. Madeleine  and  I understand the point you’re making, Mr. Madeleine. Though obscured at first beneath the man’s—Jean Valjean does not know what to call it other than  bullshit—there’s something here he does not want to name, which he suspects answers to  submission, and which scares him. He has not been here long enough to flee. He clears his throat and says, “Well, then. I’m sorry to hear about your troubles. I can only imagine it’s very frustrating to be stuck in a hospital room.”

“Ah—yes.” He blinks. “I should be out by the end of the week, though. There’s an appeal process.” 

Jean Valjean gives his hand an encouraging pat, only to feel bad when the fingers under his touch clutch around the handrims.

 

⁂

 

They allow the patients to wear their own clothing, which eases Jean Valjean—some; there is no other aspect of the SNF that is not wretched. He knows the odor of an institution. The transfer process has taxed Javert past what he wishes to admit, and Jean Valjean, perceiving this, begs his own weariness and departs early. He spends some confused length of time leaned against the door of his car, metal hot through his jeans, listening to a flock of grackles file their complaints. Through an open window he can hear one of the staff raising their voice in frustration.

In the evening he worries himself, he avoids his bed, when he dozes in the armchair it is into nightmare. As ever, the right path is the first one before him, and in his weakness he dithers to put his feet on it. How awful to their dignity, he thinks: that without any loved ones, Javert has this only, an old con, who pities him too greatly to see him imprisoned. And what will Jean Valjean say to Cosette?  Yes, I’ve taken in a man—well, not altogether his strangest moment—and you must never speak with him. Less explicable. She will be hurt. Can he say instead he’s gone on a trip? No, she might stop by the house for something from her room. He could say that the house needs sudden repairs, perhaps? She might believe that.

In the morning, as he searches the Double Oaks website for their visitor policy—as if a man should need policy to say when he can be visited!—he reflects irritably on himself. To be vexed to nightmare—that’s reasonable enough when the hound’s teeth are seeking your flesh, but not if the dog is all gums. Yet—the dreams were not of pursuit, but of what comes after. It’s the kennel that troubles him, not its creature.

Well. The creature fails to delight as well, but he will weather him.

He does not expect, when he texts with an excuse for making a visit two days in a row, that Javert will rebuff him. It is well enough; he takes three days to lay groundwork for keeping Cosette away from the Cedar Hill home, which is not so difficult with her continued distraction by Marius, and orders a simple cot to put in the office for himself. On the fourth, in the middle of the night, he receives a garbled but unusually friendly text from Javert that he takes to mean the SNF has adjusted his medication. In the morning there is a follow-up,  Disregard. 

 Sure, Jean Valjean texts back.  I can bring your mail over today.

 OK. Fifteen minutes later, this is joined by, Thank you.

Maybe he should make his offer over text? His charitable behavior thus far has been accepted with fair grace, or in any case with a kind of bewildered compliance flavored by the occasional profanity, but he does not anticipate this will be a pleasant conversation. On the other hand, he can exert pressure in person more effectively, and he does not want Javert to make a choice contrary to his own best interest. Yes—best to ask in person. On the drive to the SNF he finds himself tense, but not unhappy. 

The dayroom, with its large windows decorated by flower boxes, should seem kinder than a hospital. Jean Valjean crosses it with a prickling sense of barred doors and cameras, though neither are in evidence.

“Hey,” Javert greets him, and there must be something evident on his face, because he lapses into alert silence rather than launching into whatever complaints he has.

They are never quite reciprocated, but he can’t divest himself of the habit of pleasantries, the verbal dallying that has made him unremarkable over the years. Finally, he says, “I haven’t figured out all the logistics—” That is, he has not resigned himself to the logistics. “—and of course it depends on what you want, but I’m sure we can get you out of here before the end of the week.” 

“What, planning to heal me with a little laying on of hands?” He bares his teeth, taken by some private humor. “I didn’t take you for  that kind of saint.” 

“No, I mean—this place. This institution. You ought not have to be here.” 

Javert looks at him with the perpetual perplexity closer to the fore than his equally ever-present exasperation. “What are you talking about? It’s fine.”

“Don’t you find—” Have his senses deceived him, then, that he sees a prison where there is none? No; the scales are on the eyes that stare watchfully into his. “—that a place like this makes a person…”  less , he means. Inhuman. He can understand the necessity of the facility without respecting it, can know the nurses and aids are not guards without allowing them to repudiate the function. Javert, to his regret on this particular day, has an interrogator’s sense for when the subject will break on his own, and waits on. He asks frankly, “Doesn’t it remind you of Memorial?”

Javert moves his shoulders in a restless, meaningless gesture; either it doesn’t, or he denies it to himself—how can it  not, truly?—and either way he is uncomfortable arguing the point with Jean Valjean. He offers, in what is not a joke only because the fact of it is so terrible, “It has air conditioning?” Then he clears his throat, looks into his face, and says simply, “You don’t have an obligation to visit me.” 

What has come into his hands he cannot put down. “Whatever the case may be,  I  have a single-level accessible home, and it would be no trouble—” Even  he  blushes at the extent of this lie. “—for you to recover a while with me. It is not unreasonable.”

Javert raises his eyebrows.

“There’s—” 

“Fauchelevent—”

“—home health—”

“—Valjean.” The room is empty, but for him to say the name still feels like betrayal. “Can I speak?”

It takes a moment for him to understand this is a sincere question. “Yes. Of course.”

“I’ve seen your attempt to ruin yourself,” he says, in a tone that speaks  anger  while his eyes beg understanding. “You know what response I gave to that. You’ve insisted on—I don’t even know the word—clemency. You’re fucking helpful. Fine. Now you’d like to suffer for me, is that it? Well, you cannot take something that I do not have. I don’t mean to argue, sir, but you’re only making it for yourself. You see structure and it’s a prison, is that it?” He averts his gaze at last. “I don’t. I’m  fine. Ah, so—” His voice softens. “You kneel on the heights—that’s what I expect of you—” He sighs, presses a hand over his eyes, and says, “Fucking hell, I’m pretty sure you could’ve brought this to me when I was more sober. Pills are at seven o’ clock. Give me until the afternoon next time.” 

He is warm—he’s blushing again. “Ah.” This is not the protest he expected, and he wants to quit any conversation that includes praise of his person. 

“Ah?” Javert repeats, roughly. 

“How long do you have here?” Jean Valjean asks.

“Four weeks or so,” he replies, and narrows his eyes. “You aren’t going to argue more?”

Jean Valjean examines himself and finds he is piqued; his charity does not get  declined; Javert does not win arguments against him, certainly not so quickly. “I don’t know. Can we conduct this argument without comment on my character?”

“Probably not.” 

“I thought you would say I’d be terrible to live with. That your dignity was at stake. That sort of thing.” 

“I can also say those things, if you want,” Javert replies. “You’re probably right. And God alone knows what kind of roommate  I am. Nobody’s had that misfortune in thirty-five years.” He reaches out and, condescendingly, pats Jean Valjean’s knee. His hand is very large, the pinky knobbed by an old injury. “You’ll be fine. I’m sure you’ll find some other sacrifice to make soon.”His expression turns to an actual frown, rather than his resting severe expression. “Wait. I’ve seen your apartment. Do you own a rental?”

“I keep two residences,” Jean Valjean says, sheepish. “In case…” He shrugs, uncomfortable with speaking his fears aloud, then feels the same push to openness as drove him at the riots. “The house is in Cedar Hill. 55 Plume Court.”

“Ah, so you had somewhere to run off to, after all,” Javert mutters, then shakes his head. “Never mind. It’s nothing. If you’re done being over-the-top, there’s a sitting area outside. It won’t be so bad in the shade.”

Content note: suicidal ideation, medical setting, homophobia

Montage montage thoughts on I.VI.II and I.VIII.IV montage.

Javert’s therapist praises him for setting boundaries. This distresses him. It is undeserved praise. The necessity that he reveal no details of his history with Valjean makes him sound like a deranged idiot, but for honesty’s sake he mounts an attempt: no, it is not himself that he protects, but Fauchelevent (and how he stutters over the name—! what does she think of that?). The man can bring him lunch and be free of him when it becomes too much, as it becomes too much each time he visits; where could Fauchelevent go to be free if Javert nested in his home? Fauchelevent’s freedom, he stresses, is important. Not, Javert explains, that he means so much to the man; he’s not conceited; no, he is not important, he is unpleasant. He puts a great deal of stress on this word, trying to communicate by tone where facts cannot speak: I served as guard to his prisoner, surveilled him for four years, denounced him, subjected him to a profoundly awkward social situation, threatened to shoot him, surveilled him again for several days before conducting a foot chase, demanded he stab me, threatened to shoot him a second time, and detained him briefly.

The therapist types a note on her laptop. She says, “OK, Mr. Javert, to clarify: do you think this man is literally an angel?”

Valjean’s prohibition of being rude to nurses doubtless extends higher in the medical hierarchy to therapists. Javert breathes out through his teeth and clarifies.

 

⁂

 

Marius’ course had been complicated by a hospital infection—ironic, that it’s not from the sewer—and neurological deficits from the head wound, but he went to his grandfather’s with home health rather than languishing in an institution. The house is in one of the more modest streets of Highland Park, which does not mean it’s less than ostentatious. Jean Valjean would have never gone there except that Cosette asked, so he acquiesced. The interior reminds him disorientingly of his mother’s shows from the fifties, her fascination with American wealth, stilled in time.

Cosette has warned him about the grandfather. He has strange manners, Papa. Teasing him, Do not fight the nonagenarian over my honor, please. He does not.

The boy is limpid-eyed and solemn, as at the riot, with a new searching manner to his speech and a tremble in his hands, which Cosette will later tell him is much improved. Jean Valjean anticipates, with immense weariness, exclamations, exposition, explanations sought, Cosette upset, Cosette in tears, Cosette hanging on his neck in unwanted thanks, her young man in his debt when he wants no more tie between them than what his daughter’s love demands of him. 

What he receives is a blessing, to his mind: a stiff greeting, “Pleased to finally meet you face-to-face, sir.” A hesitation, a question in his eyes that does not reach his lips. Marius cannot remember him well enough to accuse him.

Yes, a blessing.

Marius blurts, “About the gardens.” Loses his words, and tries, “About the house. About stalking, or—not stalking, I mean.” It is all spoken in a very cold tone, which saps it of the charm silliness might have given it.

Cosette looks very pretty, blushing, with her face in her hands.

Jean Valjean prays to God, though for what he does not know.

 

⁂

 

The television in the dayroom has been set to a program about the riots; it is on one of the channels that he would consider more aligned with his politics than not. Javert wants to claw his eyes and ears until there is blood and blood and no more sense. They call that young man a murderer and he thinks it is the same impulse as ever that makes him respond, No, not yet, he has not been deemed guilty by a jury of his peers. It is this imprecision of language to which he has always objected, conservative news or no. They have found a photo of Claquesous, blurry, in which he is young and smiling, face half turned from the camera as if in a presaging of his elder self’s leeriness of being seen full-on. Javert dwells on what he has always taken care to be unaware of: police contractors with felon’s histories, political agitators with state money in their pocket, men who do not get charged with their crimes. 

He thinks: Valjean’s example recommends felons to whatever jobs they excel at—is there a different, mayor or police agent? The implication is that it is not the felony but the policework at fault. He shudders. How lucky he has been, or how careful his superiors, that he has never been assigned to participate in—that—all of it. What he would call dishonesty. Like worms, there chew at him questions, questions, questions, missing evidence in narcotics cases, bruises on the faces of detainees who came in unblemished, reports written by partners with events he couldn’t recall. He considers reaching out to Gisquet, but he has read the response his first email earned him, and he—cannot; the rebuke hurts, sharp-edged even through a mind flocked by benzos.

Unless he takes himself off the edge of another bridge, or overcomes his squeamishness about exposed nasal cavities and risks a gunshot, or suppresses his resistance to taking medication in doses other than prescribed—really, there are so many ways to die, he could number more—unless he resigns, he will be a witness on the stand for that trial. He did not see Claquesous die, but it is rather compelling for the prosecution, those several hours he spent a guest of Enjolras and his friends. He thinks his past self would have seen them as rebellious, and disgusting; he does not know, now. He does not trust himself with this.

It would be easier to pretend that Jean Valjean is the sun which has risen, but all that good man has done is turned Javert’s face towards the horizon. What climbs above and burns him, what shows that he has deemed emptiness where there has in fact been darkness—that is something a great deal more awful than any single man could be, whatever awe he commands.

On previous occasions when Valjean has offered to drive him someplace off-site, given there’s room for the wheelchair in his trunk, Javert has been an utter bitch in response. Today he says, Please.

They get lunch. It is too much not for Javert’s spine or pelvis but for his left leg, which is swollen now, and the persistent numbness in his feet is like a saw’s whine under his skin, but he makes Valjean laugh, once. It is good.

 

⁂

 

Señor, Javert texts him in the middle of the night, and a rambling apology in Spanish. Maldito santo, he calls him. The vocabulary is robust and the grammar poorly. The word puta features regularly. In a particularly confused message, he repeats he aquí el hombre twice, then that Jean Valjean is solamente un hombre. The sentiment is difficult to perceive, much less absorb.

In the morning he replies, You know that I’m not Hispanic, don’t you?


 I noticed you’re not Juan Valjuan yes 


 Please stop before, he types, and doesn’t know how to finish the sentence. Thinks the children with their strange ways of wording things might just add racismand call it a day.


 Not worht putting through Google translate so you know 


Jean Valjean erases his previous text and begins, No, I do understand Spanish, but


 I wouldn’t have sent it w/o the klonopin trazodone combo. 


Jean Valjean erases, again, and before he can consider that he exerts undue influence, writes, Do you think they have prescribed too many 


 BTW back at Baylor for cts today so will be too busy waiting for them to get their shit together to entertain you. 


 medications. Jean Valjean does not hit send. He deletes the message and instead texts, Ok. He thinks of prison doctors, the haze of compliance. 

 

⁂

 

“I have not been to a Catholic service for many years,” Valjean says, “but I wouldn’t mind it, if you want to go. Ah, the Saturday before, too, if you like.”

“You’ve lost the faith?” Javert surprises himself with a nameless jerk of emotion in his chest.

“In God? Never.” He smiles, a soft thing. “But the details of a man’s religion are interesting only to him and his minister. I won’t bore you.” 

Javert recalls how, when handed his effects in the hospital, he had taken the rosary from the plastic bag and clasped it in his hand. After some time he realized that he was flushed, unable to look directly at Christ on the crucifix. He has lived his adult life in mortal sin, his righteousness as a man unshaken by his awareness that he stood among the Good Shepherd’s flock a ram with flystrike, biting at the wool between his legs. His expectations for his place in the social order has always been dour, and his faith was not excepted, with his religion further suppressed by a frank lack of neighborliness. He went to Mass on Sunday, he selected Catholic when asked for his denomination, and he carried that damned rosary, which was with its origin and associations equally a reminder of his dedication to the police. Never has he suffered to blush in the face of God. Bitterly, bitterly does he blush now. His recent attempt to break the fifth commandment has little to do with this, he admits to himself—though perhaps the God from whom he sought to resign would be exasperated by the fact? In any case, he had not, on the bridge, been running to anywhere he did not expect to end regardless. Only, the sins which condemned him changed.

“Javert?”

What he wants to say is, Please, talk with me about God. Hearing in his own ear the effortful quality of his speech, he says, “I can’t kneel for all that fucking penance I’m due.” He has not done penance in decades, but he knows perfectly well one’s knees are the least of it. “Let’s not.” 

Valjean touches his elbow and changes the topic.

It occurs to him that after four years in the same congregation, Valjean never took note that Javert didn’t come to confession or receive holy Communion. The lack of counter-surveillance is frankly galling. Or—he’s forgotten? Either way, it is difficult not to sulk.

 

⁂

 

It is a moral good and existential threat when several of Marius’ friends are released from detention. They managed to escape the police confrontation without major head wounds and cannot be relied upon to let Jean Valjean be. He, who has allowed Cosette her way in the matter of engineering situations in which himself and her young man must interact, now withdraws again. 

He recognizes her brightness in Marius’ presence as the open expression of what he has seen from the corner of his eye, in moments she did not know he watched, such that even if he hadn’t remembered those awkward days in the Arboretum he would have been able to place when their relationship first began. More than it troubles him to hate this person who his daughter so loves, it disturbs him that she predicted it—it is not for her to bear up that she is everything to him. Even as it broke him, he has always been proud that she chose an out-of-state medical school, that she did not take him into consideration for that. That she has felt the need for such caution around her romantic life is—

In all his turmoils of the soul Jean Valjean has had moments when he did not comprehend the whole of himself, and moments of denial; there is only clarity here: that she is everything to him that a lonely soul cries out for, but never that. What jealousy he has of her intimacy with Marius is not—that. He prays to God that she has never thought of such things, that her reticence indicates instead a caution born of a deeply religious upbringing, the shadow of the convent, his own silence giving no guide. 

She texts him frequently, and calls twice a week, and if it troubles her that he declines her invitations to spend time together, she does not tell.

He has found himself, of late, distracted by the question of how to make his various charitable projects move along without him. The money is his, and the impetus, but never the name or the hands, and it is not so difficult. It troubles him to think that they might deviate from their purpose without his eyes upon them; he prays on this, and concludes it is the sin of pride, as haunted his work in Montreuil. He thinks to himself that Javert is another charitable work that needs to gain independence, and feels badly over the knowledge that this would hurt the man’s pride. There is melancholy, too, but he cannot place why. He thinks of when Cosette was a little girl and they had found a bluebird chick pushed from the nest, half-dead, which they kept ’til it fledged and could be let free, and how she wept over its flight; has his heart been moved as hers was?

Javert, like the bluebird chick, has his moments of utterly lacking charms. He is up on crutches at last, and Jean Valjean has convinced him to come out for a celebratory meal. Evidently the resident in the neighboring room listens to Johnny Cash regularly, which has occasioned—Jean Valjean glances at his phone—a fifteen minute rant about the artist’s poor morals. He has not previously put much thought into Cash, but he has the sense from the facts stated between Javert’s opinions that their perspectives do not align.

In the pause following the arrival of their meal, he says, “He recorded those prison albums, didn’t he? I seem to recall he did some advocacy work.” He takes a bite of his gnocchi. 

Javert looks struck, which is unfair. Jean Valjean barely said a thing. There is a silence. Javert takes what is more than a sip of his wine. 

He adds, “‘Ring of Fire’ was catchy. I remember when it was on the radio. Ah, you probably weren’t even born.” 

“You’re not that much older,” Javert mutters, in an odd tone; then, altogether too neutral, “That was one of my mother’s favorites.” 

A man this fucked up, Jean Valjean thinks, has nothing good to say about his childhood. While he shouldn’t throw stones, his answer to the subject remains no, thank you. “You always change the radio to classic rock. That’s your preference?” 

“Not really, but it’s more palatable than the pop shit you always have it tuned to.” His smile is unexpected and softens his tone as he continues, “Ridiculous, a man your age listening to Taylor Swift and—I don’t know what else. The goddamn song about being happy that they won’t stop playing.” 

“The Pharrell Williams single? He’s quite an influential producer, too.” The station he prefers plays songs from the turn of the millennium to the present, and he’s really more invested in the older—relatively speaking—music, but explaining would require he talk about Cosette, nostalgia for her childhood, and he has thus far avoided mentioning her.  Besides, this mockery from Javert, it’s—well, Jean Valjean does not mind it. He might even mistake it for friendliness.

 

⁂

 

 Good fucking Christ, thinks Javert, who can still feel his own smile in the corner of his lip,  m I friends with that old man? He chose the glass of wine over the evening meds contraindicated for use with alcohol, and is therefore trapped awake with all the inescapable little sounds of a facility at night around him. The neighbor who listens to Johnny Cash also snores. He reviews the six weeks that have passed since he turned his head and found Valjean at his bedside. He tallies their behavior against his abstract knowledge of friendship. The results are not amenable to him. Surely they are symbols of failure and suffering to each other before they are men, much less more?

—Surely?

Valjean wore slacks and a button-up to their little celebration dinner—did symbols of failure and suffering go to dinner together?—and had something of Madeleine’s charm about him.  Could be decade-old sexual frustration reviving, Javert tells himself, whose hatred of the man in Montreuil was matched step for step with a willingness to get on his knees for him. Javert is much more accustomed to thinking of himself as a cocksucker than as someone’s friend.  He is too alert and too honest to accept this substitution; far be it from him to pretend he wouldn’t bend over for Valjean, but that hardly signifies where the question of emotion is concerned. 

Should he ask?

 

⁂

 

A dozen times Jean Valjean almost demands, What is it, Javert, and a dozen times he falls back from the question. The man is a creature of habit, he knows; doubtless the transfer from the SNF to home, while seeming to him like a blessed escape, is in actuality a struggle. God alone in his wisdom knows what might be passing through that blockish skull. He has an elbow leaned against the door, chin propped in cupped palm. There’s quiet in the car, volume low on the censored verses of Nicki Minaj; Javert has not switched the station.

“I didn’t realize there was a woman in your life,” he says, abrupt but neutral.

It locks the muscles of his back. “I don’t see what makes you say that.”

“Her mail is in your car,” Javert says. “Saw it when I put my bag in the back seat. Or am I not the only invalid you’ve played postal service to?”

Yes, letters from the finance office of the college; he recalls, but would not have expected the man to notice, tucked as they are into the pocket on the back of the driver’s seat. His instinct is to lie—what does it matter, when they will not see more of each other? He could say: someone from church. A neighbor on a trip. A girlfriend? He is dubious he could sell the last, particularly given Javert must have been aware he abstained from romance in Montreuil. “You do know of her,” he says. “My daughter, Cosette.”

“You kept that child?” From the corner of his eye, it is impossible to make out quite what Javert’s expression has gone to, but his voice is harsh. “You can’t have adopted her.” 

 I paid for her, Jean Valjean decidedly does not say, and knows he ought to have lied. “Ah, well.” He glances over. “Do you have a grocery store preference?”

In a distant tone, he replies, “Tom Thumb is fine. Take a right off the Field Street exit. We’ll have to go past the Jack Evans Headquarters on the way to my apartment—that fine?” When he receives a brisk gesture of assent, he restarts, with a dogged air, “The parole violation and fraud charges alone are enough for a prison sentence, but the statute of limitations won’t have expired for a fucking kidnapping, and—”

“Javert,” he says, his voice soft, “if you ar reconsidering seeing to my arrest, I would ask you to not involve Cosette.”

“I’m not—” His hands come up as if to seize, to fling something away from him. “Never mind. I won’t think about it.” 

Given the depth of his agitation, this seems an unlikely way to resolve the situation.  “I shouldn’t have put you in this position.” 

“I’m not thinking it through, Valjean.” He presses close to the door, as if he would escape were they not on a highway.

“Cosette’s mother—” He has not been able to bring her name to his lips for years. “—gave her into my care.”

“Yes, that woman had a habit of child abandonment, didn’t she?” he snarls, his vitriol towards Fantine shockingly crisp-edged, as if he has kept it under glass all these years. “You were a rich man, a prominent one. Of course the bitch would want to cuckoo her child into your house. I, of all fucking people, am aware she didn’t have time to change her mind once she knew what you are.” 

“No, she didn’t have time.” He will not look on those memories, knowing how he will find them: all of it gone strange with time and too much contemplation, here blurred, here more vivid than reality. He will hear the sound her skull make as it struck the headboard, feel her hand still warm under his lips, weep for how in her final repose she seemed to smile. He takes the exit. “Regardless, I made a promise.”

“A fugitive’s promise to a whore,” he says, “is not a legal transfer of child custody.” 

“No.” He takes the opportunity of a red light to turn and face the other man in full. “She wasn’t that.” 

“Well, she was never convicted,” Javert mutters. He holds eye contact, but too much of his sclera show. “No, she was never even charged.” The car behind them honks and he flinches hard enough to hit the door.

Jean Valjean does not startle; he checks the intersection before he drives forward. The controlled breathing of the man next to him is over-loud, and he wonders if he ought to pull off into an empty lot for this conversation. He would not engage with it at all, except he must be certain that Javert will not interfere in Cosette’s life. “I didn’t realize you held on to this anger. I haven’t seen it in you these past weeks.” 

“Why should my feelings have changed?” he returns. “You humiliated me—and then I humiliated myself. Twice, if you count that shitshow of an arrest attempt. Yes. Twice. And you—you don’t feel anything? I distinctly recall you accused me of murder, at the time.” 

He pulls into the Tom Thumb lot, parks. When he turns off the car, the radio keeps playing; Pharrell invites them to clap along. He presses the dial to silence it. His memories of Javert’s part in his downfall as Madeleine are faded, and not from being too gone-over; this man had the misfortune of being the lesser concern in each of the encounters that have remained so important to him, nothing beside Champmathieu, less than nothing beside Fantine. What does he recall? The surprise in Javert’s eyes when he took the gun from his hands and struck him with it, as if they had jumped from one script to another. Yes, most of all he remembers those eyes, watching through the years. Scattered incidences, from less emotional times. Sudden, clear: trying to calm Javert down, saying, I esteem you. A lie. He wonders now what impact it had. He is glad to have remembered; he will not try to de-escalate this situation in the same way, knowing it will not work.

Javert watches him, making no move to leave the vehicle. Fuck. He’s asked a question, and his patience has never been lacking. 

“I have never wanted you to come to harm,” he tries. 

Javert looks unimpressed by this.

What does he feel? At the moment, exasperation, and that first stutter of the heart that precedes the chase when one is the prey. “Please—”

“Don’t say please to me,” Javert rasps. 

It is one of those moments of vulnerability which has nearly driven him from the man’s side, entanglement be damned. He goes still. “We should get those groceries.”

Javert holds out a hand to him, gaze gone sharp, and while the curbing of his emotion is welcome, the shift of attention is not. “Are you  afraid? What of?”

“Habit, only. I am used to running.” The honesty costs him nothing, but still, it stings his throat. “You don’t want me to say please—but I don’t know how else to ask, Javert. Please. I don’t care about the past. Cosette has not known what it means to run. Not like I have. She doesn’t know.”

“Anything?” Javert asks, bewildered, and sees the answer in his expression. “That’s fucked up, Valjean. Why must you lie?” 

Jean Valjean undoes his seatbelt. “Well?” 

“You said please and never specified what you wanted,” Javert replies, pettish, and mimics him. “But—fine. You’re a kidnapper; very good! Add it to the list. You’re a good man. I know that. What do you expect, anyway, that I’ll tip off the police? With what evidence? As if I didn’t learn my lesson the first time.”

“You were right then, too,” Jean Valjean says.

“No. I’d be equally wrong now.” Javert pops the car door with more force than is necessary. “I’ll have an answer some day, but sitting this long has been hell. —Don’t rush, I can lean on the car and get the crutches out of the back. Christ in heaven.”

It is an awkward shopping trip, a quiet drive the rest of the way to the apartment, both of them flinching under the shadow of police headquarters as they pass it by. Javert seems too tired for further conversation, for which Jean Valjean feels guilt, gratitude. They bicker over who ought to go up the stairs behind the other, Jean Valjean to catch Javert should he fall, or Jean Valjean so that should Javert fall he not be knocked down. Jean Valjean prevails. It feels normal, as if they had not fought. He does not know what to make of the fact that there is a sense of normal from which to deviate. When it seems like Javert might offer him some kind of hospitality, a glass of water, he leaves. 

 There, he thinks as he drives back to the Southlake apartment.  We are quit of each other. 

 

⁂

 

In the first moment that he is alone, Javert goes to his gun safe and removes the P250. It is not illegal for him to own; no part of his hospitalization related to his mental illness, and he has not been adjudicated as mentally defective. Whether the spirit of the law would see his right to carry revoked is another matter, and none of his concern. Or—perhaps it should be? Such questions are what makes him look speculatively at the firearm. But he does not own any tarps to put down and catch the mess, he thinks, and he has been on good terms with his landlord all these years.

He sits on his bed, the crutches fallen to the ground at his feet, and rests his forehead along the barrel of the unloaded handgun. It is painful to think. He would rather be cleaning up the disgusting amount of dust that has accumulated in his absence. In his ears is the sound of the river, in his eyes the mist. He blinks away the latter, an unmarked time later, and struggles with his rigid back to retrieve the crutches, and return the P250 to the safe.  Not today, he tells himself. 

He wants his goddamn answers from Jean Valjean, for one.

After a week, Javert determines that Valjean does not intend to contact him. Well, is the man such a pussy that he can’t handle one argument over their shared past? Has Javert not reassured him that he will take no action against him? He composes several texts. He experiences self-loathing over those that are too harsh, and a different, less comfortable emotion when they are overly needy. Attempting to directly confront the reason for this silence does not prove fruitful. He settles on,  Making stuffed chicken tomorrow night. Come over if you want. Six o’ clock.  He adds, after a very stressful ten minutes,  Can be earlier or later if you need it to be. 

 

⁂

 

Jean Valjean realizes, quite startled, that what Javert has extended to him is the open palm of friendship. This is far from the first time he has been presented with such a thing, but it is the only one he has been uncertain how to avoid. Old Fauchelevent had been tricky, but he had only to think of his deceptions to place distance between them. He has no such excuse here. He received Javert’s text five hours ago and has yet to reply. 

 6 is fine, he plucks out. Sends.

Content notes: homophobia? suicide mention? idk, the real warning is: there's only one bed.

[ETA 12/16/23] Javert is not, in fact, psychic. Fixed.


Javert fails to intimidate his new therapist, a prune of a woman who looks as if she has weathered a Methuselah’s time of worse behavior than his. He likes her no better than the last, continues in his ambivalence about whether the profession is respectable, and will attend their sessions because they have been scheduled on his behalf as part of the discharge process. He has interrogated enough witnesses to recognize when he is being handled, and to come to the unfavorable realization that he is one of the 

chatty 

ones, the kind that play out the rope themselves. It mollifies him somewhat when she lets him ramble about Valjean, and annoys him to know that she’s deliberately letting him decompress from topics he likes less.



“Fine,” he admits the second session. “I’m frustrated. That’s not his fault.” 



She looks attentive. The bitch has gotten blood, already, on the topic of childhood, which he has thus far refused to acknowledge as having any significance to his adult self. 



“So he won’t offer an opinion,” he goes on. “I know he won’t. Well, I shouldn’t expect him to, then.” 



The therapist makes a note. “He doesn’t offer—do you ask?”



“I don’t like asking questions,” he replies, and cannot account for the shame that follows. He pushes past this, ventures, “It’s unfair to him that I’m being a dick, isn’t it? When he hasn’t had the chance to…” He makes a vague gesture, lost to describe what he actually wants from Valjean. “Though when I 

was 

direct with him, he spent a week in hiding. Ah, well, I say 

direct, 

it might have been taken as—aggressive. I didn’t mean to be. I was very… startled.”



“Hmm,” replies the therapist. 



“I’m not defending myself,” Javert says, defensive. “Anyway, has it been a God damned hour yet?”


 


⁂


 


Ignorance and poverty have been the antagonists of Jean Valjean’s life. Another letter of denial from the Comptroller of Public Accounts in the matter of releasing the factory and related properties has him wondering if he ought to allow Susan Combs a special seat at a table populated otherwise by abstract concepts. Yes, the liquid assets are more than adequate for a young woman of Cosette’s sensible and modest temperament; yes, if he looks at the matter square, he could have left her with nothing but his cash on hand and been satisfied that she would graduate from medical school with no debts. Regardless, while he is a man of few wants, what he wants 

for Cosette 

he pursues voraciously. He takes this latest letter into his study and unlocks the bottom drawer in which the papers related to this matter are secreted—the names 

Jean Valjean 

and 

Fantine 

appear on them, and he is not yet ready to hear how they sound when spoken by Cosette’s sweet voice. 



A chime—a message from Javert. The man’s name in direct juxtaposition with the bank statement the phone sits on top of makes him think, perhaps for the first time, about the  man’s opinion; namely, what his reaction would be to Jean Valjean’s withholding information about the fortune from Cosette, though 

legally

 it is in her name only, and he ought not have access to it, courtesy his status as a dead man. A plain statement of 

that’s fucked up

, perhaps, and confusion. Perhaps? He wonders if he ought to make 

some

 study of the man’s psyche, if nothing else to be able to guess at his reactions; he has not yet managed to disentangle himself, might not anytime soon, and the surprises are never 

pleasant 

when he fails to predict Javert’s behavior.



There’s been a shift in demeanor: he would call it presumption, were it not also submissive: Javert has taken to asking direct questions, what are almost requests for judgment. Jean Valjean abhors the role of judge and spurns it, to no effect. Over a surprisingly decent meal—he makes excellent rice—Javert had looked up and asked, 

Do you think that this Enjolras boy deserves to go to prison

? Despite receiving empty words in response, he persisted—not in the moment, when he accepted what conversational switchback he was set on, but overall. The next attempt to engage him is more impersonal, 

Do you think we should be involved in this Iraq situation?

 



The third is agonizingly intimate, delivered over a passable shrimp paella. “Do you think suicide is a sin?” 



This would not be the first time Javert forced him to jump out a window, and Jean Valjean considers it. There are topics on which he believes himself to firmly grasp not the 

theory 

of the moral problem so much as the 

consequences

, and he would discuss that; he rather thinks the consequences in this case are clear, and that it would be belittling to Javert should he act as if the man, with all his suffering, did not know them. Cautious, he says, “‘Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father.’ There is no death that He does not attend.” 



“What a direct answer,” Javert replies, with a rough noise that is almost a laugh. 



The sarcasm pricks, when Jean Valjean has spoken more clearly than is comfortable. “Fine. Yes, it’s a sin.”



Javert looks at him with something in his eyes that is uncharacteristically obscure, and says, “Thank you.” 



Perhaps it is not obscure—perhaps Jean Valjean does not 

want

 to understand. He will contemplate it later. At the moment, he suppresses his own sarcasm, the question 

Are you thanking me for calling you a sinner

?, because he knows that he will not like the answer—no, that is not what Javert wanted from him, nor what he got. He hauls them onto the next topic, bland, Bible translation preferences. 



But—“I’m a thief,” Jean Valjean blurts, while he is washing the dishes. 



Javert, who is on the couch with his ever-bothersome left leg elevated on cushions, squints at him. “Okay. What did you steal this time?” 



“Not recently,” he clarifies, and because he cannot say 

you should not view me as a moral authority 

without openly acknowledging the dynamic between them, he falls silent.



Javert says, “You’re really more of a fraudster, at this point.”



“I trust your professional judgment,” replies Jean Valjean, who does not feel bad about the fraud at all, but has suffered under the weight of his thieving. 



“You still think of yourself that way,” Javert says, as if musing aloud. “As a thief. I know—I, ah—you 

are 

technically a fugitive, a felon, a criminal. All that. But—”



“I am,” Jean Valjean interrupts him, who suspects but has been saved the confirmation of what his old pursuer thinks is within him, that has earned him reprieve, and seen the old legal tiger tear himself with his own unforgiving fangs. In any case, this 

I am

 is not something that pains him to say to Javert. The man already knows; there is relief in the honesty, to hear, 

You are a criminal

, and say, 

Yes

. It could not suffice for his conscience—nothing would, until the day Cosette was freed entirely of his shadow—but served for it like ice on a canker. “All that I have done that might be of good—what little use I’ve been to others—has been in repentance of my crimes. I was the worst of wretches, and sinned against the best of men.”



“Seems like—” Javert’s voice is low, almost a mumble. “—if you’re such a penitent, you could’ve simply served your time.” 



“What penance would that be? In prison I would’ve only become more wretched still.” Jean Valjean puts away the last of the dishes in a silence that is not uncomfortable—for him, at least.



Jean Valjean, in reflection upon that evening, dislikes the vulnerability he allowed himself, and has shied away from analysis of that obscure, earnest look after all, for discomfort over the warmth it prompts. He puts aside his paperwork in favor of seeing what this strange mess of a man wants to share with him today




New outpatient psychiatrist looked at my med list and said yikes

, Javert has texted him. 

Literally yikes Fauchelevent. yikes! 




Jean Valjean does himself no credit with the surge of validation which this occasions. He tells himself that this is a time for sympathy. The fact that Javert has texted rather than waiting for their next in-person conversation indicates great disorder. He sends, 

Do you want to talk?





No why would I




He contemplates. 

I am sorry

. 




Yikes





So you said.




An hour later, Javert texts, 

What’s next I question the surgeon on how many pieces of metal should go in my spine. Do I have a fucking medical degree? I do not Fauchelevent. Doctors aren’t respected because they dont know what the hell they’re doing. Right?





People get second opinions on surgeries, 

Jean Valjean offers. 



It is some time before Javert texts, 

Guess next time I am going to do myself grievous bodily harm detach my pelvis from my spine again or w/e I’ll make sure to research beforehand you know in case i survive for the best doc and request that guy





That would be your right

, Jean Valjean replies. He should prepare his documents to re-file so that he can regain control of his own fucking factory, and he wants to focus on that, but he sets the task aside again as he waits for a response.




What if the new psychiatrist is the one whos wrong?




Jean Valjean struggles against his personal distaste for the medical establishment, aware that Javert’s continued survival is as much a surprise from the mental perspective as the bodily. Those who take to bridges are often certain of their path into the water, and make a second offer if the first is refused. He fumbles over the text, uncomfortable, too, about having his words be so permanent. 

I suppose you will have to see how you feel.




☹️, Javert sends.



Jean Valjean stares at this text as if it holds terrible importance. He has known other people of their generation who use emojis liberally, but it is the first he has ever received from Javert. His instinct to respond with 

lol 

is surely incorrect. He thumbs through to his contact card, taps his number, impatiently waits for the call to connect, and asks, “Do you need someone to be there in person?”



A long silence hums over the line. “Valjean, what would you do if I sent 

two 

sad faces?”



Jean Valjean would almost call the tone—no, he does not know. He will not say. He recalls it to mind each time, in the following two weeks, that Javert acts an entire ass. Titrating down on medications does not treat him well, and by God, does he pass on the suffering. 


 


⁂


 


Javert has testified for the plaintiffs in three of this prosector’s cases, who looks at the affidavit for non-prosecution on his desk as if presented with a fresh log of shit. 



“You’ll find it doesn’t contradict my original report,” Javert says, keeping his tone level. 



The prosecutor looks startled. “Of course. I’m sure it’s all perfectly in order. But—you’re a hard-ass. Don’t get me wrong, I’ve never known you to say a word on the stand that could be construed as opinion rather than fact, but I’ve heard you talk outside the courtroom, too. Why 

wouldn’t 

you want these jackasses strung up?”



“That question is answered in the affidavit,” Javert replies. 



“Yeah, yeah, sure, but in legalese. C’mon.” He picks up the stack of paper, but doesn’t start to read.



Nowhere in those documents does Javert perjure himself, but that was the work of many days of picking agonizingly between phrases and a lawyer’s review. He has no faith in his ability to elide Valjean’s role in his escape without resorting to outright falsehood if questioned directly in a trial setting. The argument in the affidavit that mitigating circumstances and his lack of injuries remove criminal culpability from his alleged assailants does not reflect his sincere thoughts on the case, but he can 

conceptualize 

that reading of the circumstances. The sin is lesser than of breaking his oath on the stand. He has never respected victims who declined to prosecute, and has always taken satisfaction in knowing the state would take their place, ensuring the injury to society would be righted; given his reasons are not in the pursuit of justice, there is some comfort that this is a gesture he makes, and not a choice.



“If nothing else,” says the prosecutor, into the silence, “don’t you want to see them get what’s coming to them for fucking with you? With the police?” 



“Retaliation has no place in the justice system.” It is a relief to be able to say something he has always believed, if imperfectly understood. He levers himself to his feet and does not miss how the prosecutor’s eyes flick to the crutches. “Of course I’ll answer a subpoena if one is issued.” 



“But you’re making no promises that you won’t be a better witness for the defense than for me, eh?” He stands and holds out his hand to shake, then withdraws when he realizes that Javert’s are both occupied. “Frankly, it might work out for the best. Their friend getting shot makes them too damn sympathetic. A jury could be more open to finding them guilty of lesser crimes. Not that it’ll get that far—mark me, at this rate we’ll offer them some petty misdemeanor charges, and they’ll take the pleas.”



“You have my contact information if you need clarification,” Javert replies, and leaves before the unease stirring in his gut becomes conscious thought. 


In the car, he leans his forearms against the steering wheel and finds he needs a moment to press his face into his hands and breathe. In the past, the prosecutor’s words would have been something to dismiss, implications quiet enough to not hear. So he worries more about the win than the correctness of the charges; so; so. So. Javert shakes it off. He has to be home; he has a delivery coming. He has not entirely lost the talent of bottling away cognitive dissonance and does so now.


He has purchased a dining room set because it is practical; he has had a guest, it has been awkward and inconvenient to make the desk or couch serve for the meal, and if he is going to be the kind of man who invites people into his home—or 

a 

person, anyway—he ought to check the boxes a host should check. It stings his pride to ask the delivery driver to help shift all the furniture into its new place, but his pride is a much deflated quantity these days in any case. He intends to make no particular point about it when Valjean comes over. 



Valjean tries to pay for it.



Javert maintains an expression of perfect blankness. “I just got the set. I’m not looking to sell.”



“I don’t 

want 

it,” Valjean says, in evident pain. “I mean—you didn’t have to—for my sake—”



“I have more free time,” Javert interrupts. Approaching this more difficult line to deliver, he finds by couching it in purely theoretical terms he can maintain a level tone as he continues, “I might invite old colleagues over.”



Valjean’s mouth 

o

’s, his warm skin tone takes to a flush beautifully. “I—I didn’t mean to presume—of course you might—I’m sure they’ll appreciate your cooking—”



Javert, in suppressing his reaction, feels the moment his lips press a little too tightly together.


Damn the old cat, Valjean catches it, his eyes narrow. In disbelief, he asks, “Are you screwing with me?”


Javert gestures at himself, eyebrows up: 

me

?



“You 

are

. No, don’t dissemble, you’re bad at it.” 



He shakes out a silent laugh. “Excuse me, sir, I spent years looking at that shitty neck tattoo and pretending I didn’t absolutely know your identity. I am an 

excellent 

dissembler.” 



“Javert,” says Valjean, very gently. “You used to grimace at me when we passed on the street as if I’d run over your dog then lied about it. You would literally shake your head.” 



“I was always polite to you,” he protests. 



Valjean touches his shoulder with an open hand in a comforting gesture that distracts him terribly, and says, “No, you were always proper. —You’re really not going to take my money.”



“Never,” Javert replies, with a liar’s stutter and great confusion: he does not know which of them would be the whore should he say, 

Keep your hand on me and you can refurbish this whole goddamn apartment

. Just that, light fingers over clothes. He might excuse the response, were it skin on skin; he hasn’t gone this long without a fuck since he was sixteen. But—no. An innocuous part of the body, a barrier of fabric, Valjean’s warmth. It is not the first time they have touched, but now he is not profoundly drugged. 

Ah, 

he thinks. 

Shit

. But there is no time to reflect. He can still milk some harassment out of this conversation, and on occasion his mockery makes Valjean smile, or even laugh.



The reflection catches him later. He is reminded of his first crush, his eleven-year-old self’s terror in learning what a faggot really was, except whatever’s waking now is even more vulnerable and idiotic than a cock. He’s disconcerted. All the same, a deformed mooncalf of an affection hardly ranks on his scale of emotional problems. There’s no fear, not even the wariness which comes with the risk of a heterosexual man catching a straying glance; if Valjean didn’t beat the shit out of him for the crude pass he made in the nineties, he won’t go to gay panic now. He plays a while with the idea of Valjean’s pity and what might come of it until he realizes the inherent shame of having his hand on his cock and another man’s body in his head has a nuance that 

does 

trouble him. He chases the discomfort but cannot bring it to bay. If he wanted to make a moral objection over beating off to Valjean, it really ought to have been back in the eighties, though even 

he

 doesn’t blame the young man he was for being too distracted by 

those muscles 

to grasp the ethical problem of desiring to take the dick of a prisoner under his authority. 


He thinks, a little wistful, about the prison riot fantasies of his teenaged self. Ah—no, he most definitely shouldn’t get off to those. It’s certainly disgraceful, inarguably sinful, probably immoral, and embarrassing to boot. An entirely different problem than the one that has him wilting now. Is there a way to text a question to Valjean that will illuminate this problem without embarrassing the man? Possibly. Damned if it’s worth the effort of figuring it out, though. He would sacrifice his freedom to Javert’s duty, there might even be a road which ends with his cock in Javert’s mouth, but the sweet bastard won’t give him what he wants: a shred of his moral sanctity. His answer to Javert’s question about suicide appears to have been a fluke; there’s been no repeat. 



Deposition this week

, is the message he sends. 

Busy etc. 




Jean Valjean responds with 

Of course… Let me know when you’re free.



 


⁂


 


It has been eight days since he last saw Cosette in person and three days since they spoke over the phone. She texted him today 

Papa its been a week!! letsplease have lunch. 

Of course he responded immediately with prevarications. He is debating whether 

a week 

colloquially might mean more than seven days. He has asked Google. He has even considered texting Javert for his opinion, but it has been five days since 

they 

spoke, and it is possible that whatever the man hopes to gain from his offer of friendship he has finally resigned himself to not getting. 



Cosette’s text is timestamped 

8:09AM, 

his reply 

8:13AM, 

and the clock on the wall tells him now it is eleven o’ clock, with the dark outside delivering the shock that it is not late morning, but night. He has not even got out of his sleep clothes. 



The knock on the apartment door has him halfway to the window with the fire escape before he registers why; the rhythm, the harshness, on its tail will surely come a barked 

police, we have a warrant

. He imagines Javert’s silence as indicative of a breakdown, of confession—or—camera footage from the riot finally being traced back to him, though he kept his face covered; it would not be the first time he was recognized by his body, he thinks, somewhat hysterically. The knock comes again, but—more hesitant.



So be it. “Coming,” he calls, and goes.



Well, that would be why the policeman’s knock, he thinks, looking up into Javert’s face. It should not be a shock; he is the only person beside Cosette who knows to find Jean Valjean at the Southlake address. Only, they have never between them made the least hint that his visits to Javert’s apartment should be reciprocated, and what is 

technically 

an open invitation was meant for one purpose, which this man can no longer fulfill. Jean Valjean stands a moment merely observing him, with the hair standing up on his neck. To an unfamiliar eye, there’s nothing here to remark on; merely a man in a suit, buttoned-up, hair neat, expression grave. Except the tie is a little undone, and askew. He leans his shoulder against the jamb in an abrupt motion, losing his balance on the crutches as he hasn’t since the first few days he was on them.



“Good Christ,” says Jean Valjean, and tries to put himself under Javert’s arm, to support him into the apartment.



Javert does not—quite—hit him, but the shove is more than a reaction to an unwanted and unexpected touch. His expression flickers to what is almost disgust before it dies again.



“All right,” Jean Valjean says, in a soothing tone that he used on Cosette when she was in one of her rare tantrums. He moves out of the way. “Please come in.” He does not ask, 

Why are you here

; they cannot avoid the answer, but he need not prompt it.



Javert enters and stands at the center of the room with his head bowed, without having made the least observation of his surroundings. He takes no heed when Jean Valjean shuts the door and circles around to stand in front of him. He says to the floor, “I’m a perjurer.” His tone is cold, and his voice slurs in a way that might’ve been drunken, but there’s no smell of it on him. His accent has shifted further East into the Bible Belt than Texas, which Jean Valjean associates with his most drugged moments. 



“Okay. Did you take anything before you came over? Any of your medication?” He ducks his head, trying to get a better look at Javert’s pupils. 



He turns his face aside, bruised eyelids low, which is unhelpful—hopefully not deliberately so. “Do you think of me as someone who would drive under the influence?” 



“Sometimes we make unethical decisions not because of who we are but because of the situation we are in. You don’t have to answer the question.” He seems too coherent for overdose, at least.  “Will you sit down? You aren’t steady on your feet right now.” 



He straightens on the crutches, as if to prove something, and sighs deeply. “‘A false witness shall be punished, and he who breathes out lies shall not escape.’ Is that the proverb?”



Not quite, but that does not seem like the salient point. “Javert.”



“‘Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and mother’—shit, Valjean, I ought to find something to steal, for completeness’ sake.” His lips twitch up over his teeth, fall flat again. “Ah, wait, did I miss one? Idolatry?” 



“The story of the rich man seems more my concern,” he replies, and reaches out. “Please, Javert.”



He steps backwards. “But I’m being false now, too. It’s not God I’m fucked up over. I’ve made a mockery of justice. They could tell. The prosecution and the defense are both cautious of me. Bad witness. Scattered, hesitant. 

Unstable

. The whole truth—hah! Do you know how often I’ve been in court? How many depositions I’ve given? I know these fucking people. They know I’m a suicide, but now they think—but that’s for the best. If they think I’ve gone insane, they won’t know I’m a liar.”



He gathers the deposition went poorly. 


“It would have been one—one thing only—one moment. A single decision. Then death, then Hell, but not this hell. It’s ongoing. This, this—” He spits a profanity, too garbled to distinguish. “I don’t blame you, but—you son of a bitch—I want to.” His voice has ratcheted higher. There are neighbors to think of.


“When did you last sleep?” Jean Valjean asks, and puts gentle hands on his shoulders, trying to lead him to the couch. Because he has no reference for someone so profoundly upset other than Cosette, and it is a promise he would make to her, he adds, “We can make it okay.” 



Javert lunges forward; when he drops a crutch so that he can seize Jean Valjean by the collar, the noise of it falling is loud. Leaning close, he snarls into his face, “You will not turn yourself in.” 



“That doesn’t actually seem like an ‘okay’ resolution to me,” he replies, blinking as he tries to focus on blue eyes close enough to blur. 



“You’ve been a fool in the past, sir. Don’t pretend like that’s not true.” He lurches back, left leg near almost giving under him as he puts space between them. “Please, tell me. Have I done right?”



Jean Valjean thinks: if this were his daughter, he would press her to his chest and let his heartbeat speak for him. There are times when a cry of despair cannot be answered by words. He does not know what to do for Javert. “I see that you acted according to your conscience,” he says, “and that is more important than whatever your actions mean to me.”



Javert surprises him by looking merely exasperated. “You don’t have even one straight answer for a drowning man?”




You are not very adept at drowning, 

he does not say. 

God has chosen that you not drown

. No; he suspects that Javert is not, despite his strict Catholicism, a very religious man, and 

speaking 

of God will not comfort him now. He sends his prayer to the Holy Spirit, comforter of men, for intercession. “You must bear yourself up.”



“I’ll fall,” he replies, with a gesture towards the crutch on the floor.



“Then let it be to your knees, and no further.” 



Javert leans towards him, desperate. “When you saved my life—”



“Wait. I’m sorry. When what?” Valjean regrets his interruption, but the shock is great. “Javert, surely you would have come through your suicide attempt without me.”



His distress frays on the edge of confusion. “That’s—not what I meant. Let’s never talk about that. No, during the riot.” 



“When I took you off those boys’ hands?” Valjean is baffled. “When was your life at risk? I suppose you were in plainclothes, and when the police stormed the building, they might have—”



“Not from the 

police

,” Javert says, scandalized over the concept even now. “The protestors had a pistol. Enjolras had already shot a man.”



“Who 

also 

had a gun,” Jean Valjean points out, in a reasonable tone. “You weren’t an active threat. I’m quite sure you were as safe as anyone in that building.” He evaluates the other man. “Are you—are you aware of that?”



“No,” Javert spits, and puts his face in his empty hand. He is quiet for a long time, fingers digging into his jaw, his cheek. “My God,” he says, and it’s no prayer. “I think you might be right.” The noise that wracks from his is wretched. “Everything I’ve done is on the grounds that you 

saved my life

.” His hand falls to hang beside him. “But I don’t suppose it matters what took me off the road of false righteousness, so long as I’ve left it.” 



Jean Valjean does not observe, 

Police have shot many unarmed men on the excuse of feeling threatened, 

though it seems pertinent. “I see that you struggle. You are very tired, Javert. Let me help you.” 



“You kill me,” Javert says, but the intonation is all wrong, the vocative, an imperative. 

You. Kill me. 

He begins to laugh, convulsive, choked guttural noises in his chest. 



Jean Valjean closes the space between them, because he has nothing to offer but his presence, and he’s worried the man will fall.



Javert reaches his hand out towards the wall, but it is too far. That seeking touch comes instead onto Jean Valjean’s shoulder, neither quick nor fumbling, dreamlike, and presses there. He settles his feet, corrects the angle of his hips, straightens his spine, he reorients himself to 

up, 

to 

down, 

to the subtler directions against which the body resists. It is such a literal and vulnerable show of his disorientation that it dizzies Jean Valjean, and he does not stumble away only from a sense of obligation to be the upright measure for this wavering man. When he puts his hand on Javert’s arm, the muscle beneath it relax.



“Sleep here for the night,” he offers. “The morning is soon enough to talk about all this. I, ah, don’t have a guest bedroom, the second is still made up for—” He hesitates to say her name. “But—”



Javert grimaces. “You won’t be able to get me back on my feet after a night on a couch, and I think we’d both rather not even address the thought of me in the girl’s bed.” 



Indeed not. “Can I convince you that you shouldn’t drive right now?”



Javert stares at him with blank red-rimmed eyes. 



“Well, then. You can use my bed.” It seems a simple enough solution. 



The hand that even a moment ago was a gesture of comfort becomes a restraint as Javert moves restlessly beneath it, his desire to escape as clear as his compliance to being held. “No. I’m not going to put you out of your 

bed

, Valjean.” His gaze wanders away. “I shouldn’t have come at all. This come apart is beneath both of us. I—I’m—”



“Fuck it,” says Jean Valjean, and sees the tactic work: it shakes the other man’s attention back to him. He does not want to outright tell him to do something he’s already rejected and have them both go on to live with the knowledge of his capitulation, and gropes for another solution. “ It’s a large enough bed for two. Come lay down, and I will too. Will that satisfy you?” 



He goes tense—suspicious, even—but the effect of the direct command is predictable. When he says, “But not in a queer way,” it’s a sop to homophobia and not a real protest.



“No,” Jean Valjean says, with a sigh. Then, “I’m sorry, I don’t have an extra toothbrush.” He bends to retrieve the fallen crutch. “Follow me—it’s through here.”



Javert follows him, lamb-meek, and enters the bedroom with as little show of interest for his surroundings as he came into the apartment. Now that he is committed, he is prompt: he sits on the edge of the bed so that he can begin to remove his clothes, tugging loose his tie, shrugging off his jacket, putting fingers to the buttons of his shirt. His gaze is fixed on the opposite wall.



Jean Valjean says, strained, “I don’t think any of my pajamas will fit you.” 



“That’s fine,” Javert replies, his hands on his belt. Pale skin shows from throat to the blond hair that thickly thatches beneath his belly button. These are not new territories, but Jean Valjean has not thought of them since he first saw the man broken and exposed in a hospital bed. The tattoo is so low on his pelvis that only part of the dog’s ears shows above his pants.



It seems wise to retreat to the bathroom. Undressing can be more intimate than being undressed.



When he returns, having done what he could to refresh himself with a splash of water when he would have preferred the shower he probably missed during his haze of a day, Javert has stripped to boxers and socks, the rest of his clothes neatly folded on top of the dresser. The muscles of his arm and chest are notable—he was not a soft man before his fall, and he is 

very 

intense about his physical therapy—but his ribs are too close beneath the skin, and there’s no meat on his thighs or those sharp shins. The scars are expected but unsettling, freshest the marks where surgeons forced metal plates and screws down past skin and fat and muscle to fix bone to bone, and—there are others; there are stories of violence to be told.



“I sleep on the left side,” Jean Valjean says, surprised that Javert has not snarled over his wandering eyes. He has not felt the sins of lust since his awakening to God and therefore gives little thought to them, including how one might interpret Leviticus 18:22 or Romans 1:26-28, but he imagines the conjunction of Javert’s conservative politics and Catholicism do not lead to a kindness for gay men.



Whatever comments Javert has are lost beneath the fall of heavy eyelids, the gust of a heart-sore sigh. With an undignified squirm he gets the covers out from under his ass and tucks himself perilously close to the right side of the bed, limbs tucked, as if such a big man might hope to take up only a little space. It is a queen sized bed, and Jean Valjean is smaller but not small; they will feel each other’s heat tonight.



He leaves the bathroom light on with the door cracked, so that Javert will be able to find his way if he wakes in the night, hits the bedroom switch, and and settles himself down, feeling the weight of another body on the mattress for the first time since—since—has he ever felt this? Children crawl into bed with their parents, though he never allowed Cosette into his. His sister’s little ones never tried to join him on the couch. Fifty-five years ago, did he lay between his father and mother? He prays he sees them again in Heaven, for on this Earth he does not know even their faces, much less this specific comfort. And—it 

is

. A comfort. 



Animals feel thus in the den, he tells himself, as he listens to Javert’s breathing go deep and even. 



He is awake when the man turns over and casts an arm across his waist. Well, Javert 

did 

implicitly accuse himself of adultery, and while he has spoken of decades alone, there’s still space in his past for a wife. From how he, unconscious, tucks Jean Valjean into the crook of his body, he is not inexperienced in bed-sharing. To wake him and force him away would only be a disruption, most likely accompanied by drama, which in the best scenario ended again in sleep that might result in the same position. Sweat on his skin, Jean Valjean stares into the dark and counts the breaths that sigh sweetly over the crown of his head. The sensation of knees tucked into the crook of his knees is unaccountably fascinating—has the skin there always been so sensitive? 


 


⁂


 


Jean Valjean wakes first. There is a moment, as he lay with an ankle linked over his and a groin snugged against his ass, that he is overwhelmingly conscious of another man’s cock in a way he has not been since such a thing was a threat. The moment passes. He is well aware that a heterosexual can use his body for violence against another without either being—he does not know the appropriate word—without, in any case, anyone involved being gay; Javert’s being straight is therefore not the source of assurance; Javert, himself—he is not a threat. Certainly not here, in this bed. Not, Jean Valjean realize, startled, anywhere. The hand that splays long-fingered and broad-palmed across his belly belongs to a friend. He extricates himself from gangly limbs, praying, and takes it as a blessing that Javert does not stir with some unpredictable and exhausting panic.



He makes it as far as relieving his bladder and starting the coffee machine before this changes. There is the alternating tack-thump of a man on crutches in the kitchen doorway, to which he turns.




Oh no

, thinks Jean Valjean, with the stirring memory of this courageous despondency before him. Javert thinks he has done wrong. Jean Valjean wants his coffee and for this tension headache to succumb to the aspirin he dry-swallowed. He blurts, “Good morning. Please don’t.”



Javert opens his mouth. Closes it. Asks, “What, specifically, am I not doing?”



Jean Valjean has spoken without forethought and is at a loss.



His voice very small, Javert says, “I think I just needed to sleep. It might’ve been a couple days.” 



“That’s okay,” Jean Valjean says. “Do you want toast? I’m sorry, I can’t offer better.”



“What, not even eggs?” He runs a hand back through his hair, of which the night has revealed a slight curl that is normally tamed from it by day. “Fuck. I didn’t come here to crawl into your bed.”



“I wouldn’t imagine so,” Jean Valjean replies, bemused.



Javert knits his brows at him. “No? Well—all right.” He passes a hand over his face. “There’s coffee?”



“Soon.” 



“Thank God.” 



On which they can agree. 



There have been worse mornings.
