Title: A flicker of light
Work ID: 51636646
Author: M_Moonshade
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Fantine & Jean Valjean, Fantine & Javert
Additional Tags: domestic moment, Valjean has trauma, Javert and Fantine look out for him, established Valvert
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Fantine has noticed an odd habit of Valjean's.
-
Exists in the continuity of A Change of a Bizarre Kind, but stands alone.

Work text:


In the depths of poverty, before Fantine surrendered herself to her last recourse, she and Marguerite had sewed by candlelight. Only ever a single candle, its flickering light shared between the two of them. It had been Marguerite's suggestion, to work together in order to halve the expense for the candles-- she had been far more familiar with the depths of poverty, and had learned all sorts of ingenious ways of making a sou stretch past its limits. 



That frugality hadn't been enough, in the end. But it did serve to make Fantine particularly sensitive about candles.



Perhaps that’s why she picks up on her employer’s odd little eccentricity so quickly.



In short: Monsieur doesn’t extinguish candles at the end of the evening. He will leave them for Fantine to snuff out, or if she doesn’t catch it, he’ll allow the candles to burn down to useless pools of wax. The sight of them grates at a nerve that she nearly forgot was still raw, and at times she’ll look at the wasted remnants of burnt-out tapers with far less charity than he has shown to her. But he 

has 

been kind to her, she reminds herself in those moments. He pays her enough to live comfortably, so the cost of candles is no longer a concern except in memory, and so she is determined to say nothing of the matter.  



By all means, it’s hardly the most unusual thing about him-- that list is miles long-- but at least the rest seemed fairly consistent. It’s an odd extravagance for a man who otherwise insists on living simply. 



In the privacy of her own mind, she wonders at the reason behind it. A fear of the dark, perhaps? He seems so fearless about the dangers of the world, but perhaps that has taught him to be more cautious about what might be lurking in the shadows. She’s heard stories of his arrival in town, when he plunged into a burning building to rescue those children-- perhaps the experience has left him reluctant to put his face near to a flame. Or perhaps he is leaving the candles lit as a signal to Javert, and any other wretched souls who are wandering in the dark, to let them know that they are welcome. 



She tells herself that it doesn’t matter. Candles are inexpensive, and these days he pays her more than enough that they’re no longer a source of care for her in any matter but this. 



She is almost able to put it out of her mind altogether-- but then Javert becomes a permanent houseguest, and then a member of the household proper when they are transplanted to the little house in Paris. And it is with him that she notices a new change.



That first time, they are in the library.



Monsieur is reading-- or rather, pretending to read, while he watches Javert arrange the bounty of books on the shelves with all the enthusiasm of a terrier chasing after a rat. Even if Fantine knew enough of her letters to be much use in the matter, he seems a touch protective of his chore, and he’s even chased Monsieur back to his chair so as not to interfere with ‘his system’. 



Seeing as he’s taking some of the work of unpacking off her hands, she has decided not to be overly annoyed with him; meanwhile Monsieur seems to find it charming. For his part he has settled in one of the two armchairs in the room, close enough that he could reach out and touch Javert if he wanted to. Some well-worn volume is on his lap, but his eyes are on Javert.



“Monsieurs,” Fantine says, poking her head through the door. “It’s nearly midnight. You both ought to be getting to bed.”



“Oh-- is it already?” He marks his page and sets the book down on a side table before he climbs to his feet. His motions are small and self-conscious-- just tiny shifts of his shoulders and back that still make his joints crack and pop. Meanwhile Javert stretches like a hound to shake the stiffness out-- though interestingly, he’s been resting on a pillow to spare his knees while he works.



She decidedly does not wonder where he might have picked that habit up. 



And then Javert slows to a halt, glances back at the candle almost as an afterthought-- he is the closer to the door, and so the task of snuffing the candle would fall to Monsieur, who takes up the rear.



From where she stands in the door, Fantine can see the moment that their eyes meet, and the queer look that passes between them: Javert oddly curious for such a mundane chore, while Monsieur seems stricken, almost ashamed, before he lowers his shoulders and turns back toward the candle. 



But before Monsieur can move two steps, Javert has already crossed the room on his long legs and pinched the flame between two fingertips, and then moves to the room’s other candle to do the same.



“Come,” he says gruffly. “To bed.”



Maybe it’s just the way the shadows play on Monsieur’s face, but it seems that there’s a particular warmth in his expression when he follows Javert from the room. 


 


It becomes somewhat of a ritual between them. Whenever they turn in for the night, it is always Javert who extinguishes the candle, even when he is across the room and the flickering thing is sitting at Monsieur’s elbow. In fact, in those cases he does it with extreme prejudice, as though the candle had offended him personally by daring to remain lit in Monsieur’s presence. 



On one night Javert’s zealousness overturns the candle entirely and spills wax all over the table, and he takes a moment of muttered profanity to clean up the mess before the wax can cool.  



“He is very enthusiastic about those candles,” Fantine remarks to Monsieur, who watches him work with open affection. “Why does he insist on snuffing them himself?”



Monsieur simply smiles, as soft and warm as a flame himself, and admits, “Because he loves me.”



That much is true, Fantine wouldn’t dream of arguing otherwise. But it doesn’t exactly answer the question.



Eventually curiosity gets the better of her, and she takes it to Javert directly.



She more or less corners him while he’s polishing the silver-- not in any way that looks very frightening, but she knows he isn’t about to walk away with the task unfinished. 



“He doesn’t much like to snuff candles, does he?” she asks, as casually as she can when her curiosity is gnawing at her so badly.



Javert casts a measuring glance her way. “Doesn’t he?”



“I mean, he never does it, does he?”



“Certainly not 

never

.” He pretends to be fully engaged in his chore, but there’s an anticipation to the way he says it, as if he’s laying bait. Little as she enjoys being led this way, at least it’s an answer.



Funny, she sometimes thinks-- he seems to have gotten a lot better about interrogations since he stopped being a policeman. 



“He’s done it once or twice that I’ve seen, I suppose,” she admits. “Just not often.”



“Was there anything interesting about how he did it?” 



“What? Of course not.” There are only so many ways a person can extinguish a candle, and none of them are particularly interesting. At least, it’s not the sort of thing anybody would actually notice. But now that he mentions it, a detail does bubble to the surface. “It takes him a bit to do it, doesn’t it? LIke he has to remind himself how to do it. But that doesn’t make sense-- surely he knows how to snuff a candle.”



“As a matter of fact, he knows several ways,” Javert says. “What he needs to remind himself is which to use.”



That makes even less sense. “Does it matter?”



“To him it does.” Javert pretends to occupy himself with a particularly detailed bit of silver while he arranges his thoughts. “There’s a technique particular to a certain place where he spent a good deal of time. Long enough to have picked it up as a habit.” 



Javert doesn’t name it directly, not anymore, but Fantine remembers well those accusations he spouted off in the early days of his disgrace: that Monsieur was a convict who’d labored nearly twenty years in the slave hulks. 



She remembers another man, an ex-convict who paid for her services in her lowest time, who insisted that their business be conducted in the dark. He’d snuffed the candle himself-- though instead of a pinch of the fingers of a breath from the mouth, he leaned in close and blew out the flame with a puff of air from his nostrils. 



“Most people might never pay close enough attention to notice,” Javert continues. “Not unless they too spent time in that place, but for them it would give him away instantly. So he has to remind himself to do it otherwise. And late at night, when he’s tired and his guard is down, he’s at risk of falling into old habits.”



She’s seen that, too. Monsieur is the picture of a gentleman during the daylight hours, but she can practically measure how tired he is by the way his shoulders hunch and his foot drags, and the way little scraps of roughness creep back into his language. 



“So what if he does?” she asks. “He could put them out by juggling them for all you or I mind. ”



“But 

he 

minds.” Javert squeezes the polishing cloth tight in his fingers. “And he minds that he has to think twice about which way to do it. And that gets his mind running in directions he doesn’t like to think about. And at that point he’s too unsettled for a decent night’s sleep. So I do it for him.”



He is gruff as ever, but there’s a half-hidden tenderness in his features when he goes back to his polishing. 



Fantine means to ask if Javert rushing past him to put out the candles wouldn’t be just as much a reminder, but she knows the answer before she can put the question into words. It certainly is a reminder, she thinks, but not of the bagne. She saw as much in the look on Monsieur’s face, like that little flame had been taken from the candle wick and brought instead to settle inside his chest, she heard it in that tender warmth when he’d confessed, 

because he loves me

. 



In the next weeks she drops little hints among the grocer and the girl who comes to pick up the washing and a few others. “Monsieur has a healthy dislike of fire, of course-- ever since he rescued those children, of course. I understand it got a little too close for his comfort.”



Just enough that they might remember, if they ever bother to ask again, but not enough to leave details. So if they ever ask about his odd habits-- how careful he is to cover his scars, or how he sometimes drags his foot, or how he avoids extinguishing candles-- she’ll be able to point to the fire as the reason, and leave it at that. 
