Title: hallelujah, praise every star-crossed kid
Work ID: 51753235
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Heartbeat Kink, Hand Jobs, Outdoor Sex, Fluff, Old Married Couple, Post-Seine, Romance, Kinktober 2023, Established Relationship
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Valjean stretches himself higher along Javert’s frame so that he can nuzzle into the hidden space just under Javert’s ear, where the throb of Javert’s pulse can be felt with every brush of Valjean’s mouth and each scrape of Valjean’s teeth. Valjean places slow, biting kisses on the tender flesh of Javert’s neck, relishing the distant vibrations thrumming against the sensitive nerve endings of his lips.

Kinktober 2023, prompt "heartbeat."

Work text:

Sprawled out along the grass still clinging to the fading heat of another late summer’s day, Valjean shifts closer to lean his head against the solid, broad warmth of Javert’s chest where the other man stretches out beside him. Javert’s chin is tilted back, the curve of his skull resting against the fresh, sweet-smelling earth beneath him. He raises one arm to wave and gesture and gesticulate around the vague shapes of the constellations scattered throughout the velvet dark of the sky, his eyes gleaming in the twinkling starlight.

His greying whiskers brush along the top of Valjean’s curls as Javert points out a particular star, or relates from memory the story of a particular constellation. Javert’s sharp, austere features seem softer like this, Valjean thinks; looping an arm over Javert’s waist and pressing his cheek to Javert’s sternum, gazing up at that familiar profile while Javert loses himself in the glittering spray of the heavens.

Javert’s free hand automatically tucks around Valjean’s shoulder to pull him closer, barely pausing in his description of the maiden clasping a palm frond in one hand and the scales of justice the other. Valjean smiles faintly to himself, reveling in this small miracle—that Javert would indulge in sharing this part of himself with Valjean, now; that they can lie here, together, and appreciate the glimmering arc of the night sky above them; that Javert has the desire, and Valjean the opportunity, to pass the time on something so frivolous as this.

Truthfully, the stars never captured Valjean’s attention the way they do Javert’s. To Valjean, they have often been little more than errant pinpricks—pitiless and remote in the distant sky above Toulon, above Montreuil, above Paris. Irrelevant and immaterial for all their stark beauty; uncaring to the people that toil and suffer below. But he understands why their steady presence matters to Javert, just as Valjean knows that Javert learned their names and their stories on his mother’s knee. And through Javert’s eyes and from Javert’s lips, Valjean has found new reasons to appreciate something that had previously only ever been, at best, an afterthought to him.

Content, and not a little full and sleepy from their earlier supper with Cosette and Marius, Valjean lets his eyes slip close and Javert’s gruff baritone wash over him. This close to the other man, Valjean can feel the vibrations throughout Javert’s chest as he speaks, the even rhythm of his breathing; and the steady, reassuring thud of his heart.

It’s a comfort and an intimacy that Valjean, in a lifetime of holding the rest of humanity at an arm’s length—of being too frightened, even, to let his own daughter truly know who he was—would have never imagined in the past, even just a few years ago. To feel another’s own heart, to hear its soothing thrum; protected within Javert’s own body, and providing for Javert in turn.

There had been a long moment—terrifying then, and impossible to think on now—but there had been a moment, at the river—

Soaked to the skin and covered in filth from the sewage saturating the water, Valjean’s hands shook so intensely with fear and adrenaline that he had been uncertain if he would be able to feel that reliable beat at all. When Valjean had clutched Javert’s wrist in one numb hand, when he had pressed his fingertips against the cold skin of Javert’s throat with the other, when Valjean’s breath had strangled in his lungs and he hadn’t known, couldn’t be sure; was that a thready pulse barely fluttering beneath his touch? Or merely the echo of Valjean’s own?

Valjean had stared down into Javert’s ashen face, Javert’s lips tinged blue, his hair limp and bedraggled where it sprawled across Valjean’s lap as he propped Javert’s head against his thigh—willing Javert to live, still; praying to God that Valjean hadn’t been too late, that he had found Javert in time—

He had placed his unsteady hands against Javert’s breast, and remembered witnessing, long ago, at the docks of Toulon—a drowned man, and a desperate attempt to bring him back from the brink.

Equally desperate for reasons he did not yet fully comprehend, blinking back tears, Valjean had laid Javert out on the sodden ground and pushed steadily against that too-still chest. He had breathed into Javert’s mouth; so often twisted into an unyielding scowl, but in that moment slack and unresponsive. Valjean had lost track of the time, then—how long he tried to breathe for Javert; how long he tried to will Javert’s heart to beat. How long, pumping his hands against Javert’s chest, that Valjean had tried to beat for Javert’s heart.

And then Javert had coughed, and retched, polluted water spilling down over those thin lips and that severe jaw. And Valjean had helped Javert turn over onto his side, and thumped his back until Javert was no longer heaving. Until Javert fell back into an uneasy unconsciousness, and Valjean had let his hand linger at Javert’s throat, where his pulse was too quick and too erratic but there, Valjean could feel it, the heartbeat was there.

Eventually, Valjean had realized the skin beneath his palm was no longer uncomfortably cold, but ravaged with heat. And then there had been the fever, and the delirium; the violent contusions that blossomed underneath great swathes of bandages, and a broken leg Valjean had not even been aware of there, along the muddy banks of the Seine. And so much anger—and guilt—and hurt—and—

Now, Valjean lies in Javert’s arms, and listens to the steady beat beneath his ear. He had no way of knowing this feeling, before; and no idea of how much this specific heart would come to matter to him in particular. He had no way of knowing that even as he held his own heart out for Javert to cherish, so too would Valjean be entrusted with Javert’s—a concept even more frightening than the naked vulnerability Valjean found in loving and being loved, when Javert had known so little of someone else’s care or affection. When Javert had so little experience in making himself known to another person, in sharing and experiencing life alongside someone else.

Valjean stretches himself higher along Javert’s frame so that he can nuzzle into the hidden space just under Javert’s ear, where the throb of Javert’s pulse can be felt with every brush of Valjean’s mouth and each scrape of Valjean’s teeth. Valjean places slow, biting kisses on the tender flesh of Javert’s neck, relishing the distant vibrations thrumming against the sensitive nerve endings of his lips.

He sucks gently at the thin skin there, tasting salt; mouthing across Javert’s bare throat without specific intent, not immediately aware that Javert’s words trail off, that Javert tilts his head to grant Valjean easier access. Valjean sucks harder at the throbbing vein pressed against his tongue, thinking of a bruise darkening Javert’s skin right where his pulse lies nearest to the surface, and a low groan begins to rumble its way out of Valjean’s chest.

Valjean slings a leg over Javert’s hip, pushing himself closer, one hand still lying quiescent against Javert’s breastbone. Valjean feels Javert begin to stir and shift in response to Valjean’s touch and Valjean’s mouth; Javert’s breath coming out a little shorter, the thumping beneath Valjean’s palm a little faster.

“Tired of hearing about Virgo?” Javert asks, his tone wry. “It is true it no longer has as much relevance to either of us as it once did.”

Valjean reaches over and lightly pinches Javert’s side in answer before returning to stroke along the simple linen of Javert’s shirt and waistcoat where they stretch across his breast, and Javert squirms pleasantly beneath him. Valjean had not had any specific objectives in mind, only wishing to hear and feel and taste the rhythm of Javert’s pulse, and everything it had come to mean to Valjean. But the drag of Javert’s body against his is a familiar comfort itself, and Valjean had been awakening his own interest as he suckled eager, possessive marks along Javert’s throat.

Nosing at where a bruise would surely bloom later, Valjean speaks into the pulse thudding against his lips, “I have nothing against Virgo, or any star you may wish to tell me about; it is only that you are even more captivating, dear heart.”

Valjean feels as much as hears the deep reverberations of Javert’s answering chuckle, and Javert rolls onto his side to face him, Valjean readjusting the casual drape of his leg over Javert’s as the other man repositions himself. Javert’s arm worms its way beneath the bulk of Valjean’s body to curve under Valjean’s waist, Javert’s large hand spreading across the dip of Valjean’s lower back before moving down to curl greedily around Valjean’s backside, keeping their bodies pressed together chest and hip and thigh.

“Really, Jean,” Javert murmurs, the harsh lines of his face gentling into a smile. “You’ve turned into an incorrigible romantic in your old age.”

Valjean shakes his head, brushing featherlight kisses along Javert’s lips, his mouth widening into a grin to match Javert’s as he replies, “Hardly incorrigible. I merely speak the truth,” and feels Javert’s face warm against his own. He nips at Javert’s lower lip as he adds, “And aren’t you the one who’s always telling me I’m hardly old yet?”

Javert snorts as he moves his hand to hold Valjean’s hip firmly in place against his own, and Valjean shifts restlessly, heat pooling at the base of his spine. He can feel the growing ache between his legs, and Javert’s length beginning to stiffen in response; the sparking friction where they slide together.

“Parts of you are young, certainly,” Javert acknowledges, and Valjean lifts his hand to rest against Javert’s chest, his nerves prickling with excitement. Valjean feels a little daring: for all that it is dark out, and they are yet fully clothed, they are still out of doors—they are still sprawled out in the open, should anyone for any reason come into the back garden and find them there, rutting together like schoolboys.

With his fingers splayed out across Javert’s breast where Valjean can easily feel the minute vibrations of Javert’s heart beginning to race beneath Javert’s sternum, Valjean allows his other hand to wander freely. He skims over Javert’s waistcoat and plucks at the seam between Javert’s shirt and trousers, tugging at layers of thin fabric until Valjean reaches the swell of Javert’s stomach. Valjean rubs lazily along the supple give of soft flesh—painstakingly fed by years of steady meals and Cosette’s sincere, persistent coaxing that not even Javert is immune to—where Javert had once been little more than sharply protruding rib and hipbone.

Javert gasps a little at the shock of bare skin against bare skin, his pelvis thrusting forward reflexively and digging against Valjean’s, his cock a firm weight at Valjean’s hip.

Valjean buries his face in the crook of Javert’s neck, mouth falling open to lick again at the sweat pooling there; feeling the urgent pulse of Javert’s length grinding against his cock and the thudding of Javert’s artery beneath his tongue. And suddenly, it is not enough; Valjean wants more, wants closer, wants to feel every wildly pounding beat—

Valjean removes his hand from Javert’s stomach, drifting past the bulge of Javert’s erection where it tents the front of his trousers to find Javert’s fastenings, sight unseen. Valjean pushes aside Javert’s drawers until Javert’s length is pushing insistently toward Valjean’s hand; until Javert is moaning and trembling in Valjean’s hold, his cock leaping in Valjean’s grip as Valjean wraps his thick, stocky fingers around the shaft and begins to drag his hand up and down the length of it in steady, even strokes.

Like this, Javert is hot and throbbing and exactly what Valjean wanted; every thump and beat of Javert’s heart transmitted directly to the delicate skin of Valjean’s palm. It is electrifying, intoxicating—Javert, crying out, coming apart in Valjean’s grasp, from Valjean’s touch. Javert’s entire body humming with the tangible, irrefutable proof of Javert alive and flourishing and impossibly dear, the fierce pounding pulse of his heartbeat in Valjean’s hands.

Javert, who had hounded Valjean for so long, who had been blind to so many things great and terrible in the world around him; Javert, who had gone to the river, and nearly succeeded in his grim purpose there. Javert, who had become the friend and confidant Valjean had never envisioned, the love in these later years of Valjean’s life that he would have never dreamed of, never believed to be possible.

Javert, his head thrown back as Valjean bites into the bare skin of his throat, marking Javert’s flesh dark and red and entirely Valjean’s, shivering with the growing need for release as Valjean works Javert’s cock with long familiarity, knowing exactly what Javert most enjoys. Valjean does not want this to be over too quickly, would rather bask in the rapid drumming of Javert’s heart, the fervent pounding against his sternum; blazing and visceral where it beats and pulses along his cock. But nor does Valjean wish to tease Javert this night—wanting more than anything to see Javert lose himself in pleasure, to see Javert fall apart under the pale light of the moon, and the dazzling shimmer of the stars he so loves.

And so, although Valjean’s hand on Javert’s dribbling cock is unhurried and indolent as he cups and holds the weight of it, Valjean does not deny Javert what he knows Javert likes best: thumbing beneath the head of Javert’s cock, squeezing gently around Javert’s sac, curling his fingers firmly around the base with each twist of his wrist. It is not long before Javert’s thrusts into Valjean’s fist grow ragged, his hips jolting forward helplessly.

Valjean can feel Javert’s cock hard and quivering in his hand, can feel the hammering beat of Javert’s pulse at every point where Javert’s body is twined with Valjean’s own. Valjean trails his lips slick and searching up Javert’s throat, his chin, before claiming Javert’s mouth in a sloppy, gasping kiss; inelegant and uncoordinated but exhilarating where their lips slide against each other’s, where Javert’s tongue licks its way inside, and Valjean can feel Javert spend himself in long, sticky pulses of fluid that stain their clothing and coat Valjean’s hand where it lies trapped between their bodies.

Javert pants against the crush of Valjean’s mouth, their lips hungry, buzzing with heat and friction. Javert’s touch is clumsy in the aftermath of his completion as he paws at Valjean, his gaze half-lidded; burning with his desire for Valjean’s release and shining with a soft glow Valjean had eventually come to realize was love.

Javert seeks out the buttons running parallel down the placket of Valjean’s trousers, Valjean’s cock full and heavy; neglected while Valjean savored the sensation of Javert gone lax and sated in his arms. Valjean had not realized how truly close he was until Javert’s hand is upon him, Valjean’s cock leaking freely, twitching with each rough pass of Javert’s fist along his aching length; Javert just as familiar with what brings Valjean pleasure, just as skilled in what will satisfy Valjean without teasing him unduly.

At another time, Valjean might have been embarrassed by how quickly he finds his release. But Javert looks so gratified to see Valjean spend between them—Javert’s gaze bright, enraptured, adoring as he watches Valjean’s face flush red with his completion, slowly pumping Valjean’s softening length and wringing out the last few spurts of seed to drip down his hand. A whimper stutters and catches in Valjean’s throat, his cock giving a feeble, hopeful twitch as Javert raises his hand to his lips and licks Valjean’s spend off his fingertips, Javert’s pink tongue darting out as if tasting a rare delicacy. Javert’s lashes flutter close on a low moan as he slips his fingers past his lips and suckles away the last of Valjean’s seed.

They lie tangled together, breath easing and evening, thundering heartbeats returning to their usual sedate, steady rhythms. They tuck themselves away and tidy up their soiled clothing as best as they can, dabbing at the damp patches with Javert’s handkerchief. Valjean spares a chagrined thought for their laundry, but it is difficult to be too concerned when Javert’s face breaks into another small smile, and he winds his long, lean limbs around Valjean once more, his expression almost bashful.

“Well,” Javert says, sheepish. “Now that we have been thoroughly disreputable in our own garden, with a perfectly good bed mere steps away; do you wish to go back inside?” He glances downward for a brief moment as he adds, “We will need to wash our clothes, and I could draw us a bath.”

“A bath sounds lovely, my dear,” Valjean replies, chuckling. “I can see to our clothing.”

Valjean is still stroking Javert’s face, his throat; Javert’s heartbeat is strong and steady where it vibrates under his skin, beneath Valjean’s idle caresses. Valjean thinks of that heart, of the man it belongs to: indomitable, assertive, decisive, resolute—but capable of change, of growth, of healing.

He cups Javert’s face and draws Javert forward for another kiss; a chaste, leisurely caress of mouth against mouth.

As Valjean draws back, Javert raises one eyebrow and turns his head into the curve of Valjean’s palm. “I had no idea stargazing would make you so amorous, Jean,” Javert teases, even as he curls himself closer toward Valjean’s sturdy frame. “Should I have any expectations the next time it’s a clear night out?”

“Perhaps,” Valjean says easily, “Although you are quite irresistible regardless, wherever we may be.”

“Shameless,” Javert huffs into the scant space between them, as Valjean’s chuckles give way to muffled laughter. “Jean Valjean, you are entirely shameless.”

Valjean’s smile broadens as Javert leans forward to meet Valjean’s mouth again. Javert’s words are little more than a puff of air as he says, “But I can no more resist you, either.” He captures Valjean’s eyes with his own, humming, “I love you, Jean.”

Though far from the first time Javert has said those words to him, Valjean’s heart still aches with a bright, searing flare of joy he had never thought to experience because of another person—not like this, not at his age; not with Javert. Valjean sucks in a deep, contented sigh, Javert’s chest pressed so tightly to his own that he can feel the faint thrumming of Javert’s heart where it nestled close to Valjean’s.

“And I you,” Valjean returns; drowsy and satiated and impossibly, impossibly, impossibly happy. “I wonder if I can ever truly say how much.”

Javert tilts his head forward until his brow is warm and solid against Valjean’s, his breath fanning across Valjean’s face.

“You have,” Javert says quietly. “You do. Always. I only—” He blinks, and nudges his nose against Valjean’s, whispering, “Thank you for loving me so well, Jean.”

There is a pause, and Valjean knows that once—not so very long ago—Javert might have commented on whether he was actually deserving of such affection from Valjean, of such devotion from anyone at all.

But although the pause lingers, the words have not. Javert simply wraps himself more securely around Valjean, sheltering the other man within his embrace; and Valjean settles into the circle of Javert’s arms for a few moments longer.

The bath can wait, and their clothing be damned; like this, Valjean can feel and hear every beat of Javert’s heart, and Javert is loose and relaxed and beautiful limned in the light of stars that no longer seem so cold and distant to Valjean, and there is nowhere else Valjean would rather be.