Title: A Lesson on Braiding
Work ID: 51932191
Author: M_Moonshade
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert's long hair, everybody co-parents Cosette
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert assists Cosette in learning to braid hair.

Work text:


Javert was a policeman once. An inspector. A rising star among law enforcement. The personal protege of Secretary Chabouillet, the right hand of Montreuil’s mayor. There was a time when the sight of him marching down the streets was enough to make people scatter.



“Can you hold it, please?” A tiny hand reaches over his shoulder, offering him a plait of his own hair. Obediently he takes it from her, holding it steady while she ties a bright yellow hair ribbon around it in a lopsided bow. Satisfied, she takes the braid back from him and drapes it over his other shoulder with the rest of the finished plaits.



“Thank you!” she chirps, and gathers another handful of loose hair off his back. “That one looks even lovelier than the last one.”



Javert would object to the term being applied to anything having to do with himself, but as a comparison it is somewhat accurate. “You’re improving.” 



Indeed the plaits are turning out less awkward and lopsided, and she’s mastered her tiny fingers enough to make the process only slightly painful.



“I can’t wait to show the girls at school,” Cosette says, and begins once again to relay the intricate rituals of hair-braiding shared between said little girls. Javert has just about given up on trying to follow most of that subject. The goings on at Petit-Picpus was complicated enough even before he realized that there are three separate girls named Eugenie and second Catherine who is not, in fact, Cosette’s doll. 



He’s reaching over his shoulder to hold the next finished braid for Cosette when he glimpses her mother standing in the doorway, utterly still, one hand covering her mouth-- to stifle a laugh, no doubt.



He knows just how ridiculous he must look, sitting on the sitting room floor, half his hair loose down his back while the other half is gathered in an array of braids and brightly colored bows.



Javert gives Fantine as much of a glare as is possible without yanking his hair out of Cosette’s tiny hands-- she’s worked too hard on this latest braid for him to ruin her efforts with an undisciplined motion. Hopefully the sidelong glance is sufficient to convey his meaning: 

not a word, Fantine.




When she vanishes through the door a moment later, he assumes that she’s taken his meaning-- but if she has, she’s chosen to ignore it completely, because when she returns, her light footsteps are echoed by those heavier, slightly uneven steps with which he’s so familiar.



The traitorous harpy.



He has a handful of seconds, if that-- enough time, if he hurries, for him to get up off the floor and race to the door, maybe cover his head before Valjean can see.



There’s a time when he would have done just that. There was a time when he wouldn’t be caught dead in such a state of disarray where a superior might see him. There was a time when he would have given no consideration at all to the little girl trying to tie a powder blue ribbon into yet another bow, or to how she might react if he yanked the braid out of her hand and fled the room in shame.



Instead he straightens his posture and fixes his gaze at the wall in front of him, determined not to let his mortification show. 



“Oh, I’m sorry,” Cosette says. “Did I pull your hair again?”



He can feel Valjean’s gaze on him. Stars above, he might just die on the spot. 



“No, Cosette.” He manages to keep his tone perfectly even. “You may continue.”



There is no point in taking down the braids for dinner. Fantine and Valjean have seen them already, and his relationship with the elderly Marguerite is distant enough that he doesn’t particularly care about losing her esteem-- though her expression of shock upon seeing him does grate on his nerves. He endures it with what dignity he can still muster until Cosette tugs Valjean off to read to her, at which point he flees to his room.



He yanks the bows free, and they scatter around him in a flurry of colorful ribbon. He rakes his fingers through the braids, but instead of unweaving easily at his touch, the uneven strands immediately tangle and snarl. A snarl of his own does nothing to intimidate his locks into obedience. He’s still fighting against them when the bedroom door opens with a soft creak. 



It is a testament to his strength of discipline that he doesn’t immediately dive underneath the blanket to hide, but it doesn’t leave enough willpower left over to do anything except freeze in place. 



“May I offer some assistance?” Valjean is far too kind to laugh at him, even now. 



Javert only dares to grunt in the affirmative. He doesn’t trust himself to string words together just now.



He doesn’t turn to look, but he can follow the sounds of the door shutting, the padding footsteps across the room, the soft scraping tap as a comb is picked up off the dresser (in his frantic urgency, it hadn’t even occurred to Javert to grab a comb), the creak of him sitting on the mattress behind Javert.



Valjean gathers the array of braids in his large hands and holds them aside, then leans in to press a kiss against Javert’s neck, just below his ear.



Javert is too shocked to withhold a snort. “You can’t possibly find this attractive.” 



Valjean kisses his neck again. “I disagree.” 



“I’m perfectly aware of how I look.”



He gives a little knowing hum. “Yes, you’ve got a few tangles. But that’s nothing we can’t sort out.” He gathers the most stubborn of the braids and begins to tease the comb through the tangles, starting at the ends and working his way up in slow, patient strokes. Javert’s hair, which had been so adamant about thwarting his own control, is apparently as happy to obey Valjean as the rest of his body and soul. The tangles come loose and politely fall flat at his ministrations, and Valjean moves on to unwind the rest. 



 “Cosette was telling me how you’ve been helping her learn to braid.” 



Javert’s face heats. “She’s advanced past doll hair and requires a human subject to practice on. Her mother’s hair is still too short, and Marguerite is too tender-headed to tolerate her efforts just yet. That left only myself.” 



There’s a gentle tug as he teases the last remnants of another snarl loose, and then Valjean moves on to the next braid with soft, soothing strokes. “Are you not tender-headed?”



“I’m not in the habit of letting others touch my hair. I was willing to make an exception for her. And for you,” he adds softly, when Valjean’s hands go still. “You can touch me in whatever way you like.” 



“I’ll be sure not to pull.” 



“You can if you like,” Javert blurts before he can stop himself.



“Oh?” 



“Never mind.” 



Valjean hums thoughtfully as he finishes unweaving the final plait. He reaches out as if to search for another-- but instead he buries his fingers in Javert’s hair, close along the scalp, and then makes a fist. Javert’s breath catches. The sensation is electric-- sharp and just this side of painful, and Valjean’s grip is so close that Javert can’t move at all. Valjean drags Javert’s head back, using his captured hair as a handle, until his back is arched and his throat is bared to him. 



“Like this?” Valjean whispers into his ear, and Javert can only whimper. “I see how careful you are to be gentle with Cosette. I know it doesn’t always come easily to you. I know that you put great effort toward it.” He applies the slightest pressure, and Javet feels like he’s bending in half. “That sort of effort ought to be rewarded.” 
