Title: Reconciliation
Work ID: 52081987
Author: Lady_of_the_Refrigerator
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Barricade, Javert Lives (Les Misérables), Jean Valjean Lives, Bathing/Washing, Hurt/Comfort, Javert (Quast) - Freeform, Valjean (Wilkinson), Sexual Tension, Depression, Suicidal Thoughts, Unconsciousness, Devotion, Reconciliation, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 2/?

Summary:
“It is well. Go upstairs. I will wait for you here.”
Javert knew as soon as he had spoken those words to Jean Valjean that he sounded odd. If he sounded odd even to his own ears, to a man who had known him as long as Valjean, he must have sounded like he was speaking in a little-used foreign tongue.
To an extent, he was. Lying well required a comfort with deception that Javert had never possessed, and he had not miraculously acquired it even in this late hour, no matter how convenient it would have been for him to have done so.

Work text:

“It is well. Go upstairs. I will wait for you here.”

Javert knew as soon as he had spoken those words to Jean Valjean that he sounded odd. If he sounded odd even to his own ears, to a man who had known him as long as Valjean, he must have sounded like he was speaking in a little-used foreign tongue. 

To an extent, he was. Lying well required a comfort with deception that Javert had never possessed, and he had not miraculously acquired it even in this late hour, no matter how convenient it would have been for him to have done so. 

Still, he thought Valjean would capitulate easily enough, since it would mean his privacy would be ensured during what he believed would be a difficult farewell.

Valjean, however, did not give any indication that he intended to leave him. It was almost as if he could sense the obfuscation in Javert’s pronouncement, for he regarded him curiously, a crooked frown bending his lips as tired eyes moved under downturned brows to search Javert’s face. 

Though it was indeed well-deserved, Javert nearly balked at Valjean’s scrutiny. What reason did he have to doubt Javert’s words, no matter how peculiar he had sounded when he spoke them? What nefarious purposes could he have in encouraging Valjean to do as he wished, to put his affairs in order? What were the chances after a lifetime of honesty to a fault, to his own detriment, that Javert would choose this moment to lie?

He had, of course, and again to his own detriment, but why should Valjean assume that was the case?

Javert was at a loss over what to do. He could find no more words to use to persuade the man to enter his home. He had uttered as much of a lie as he could convince his mouth to form already. Instead, he simply waited.

At long last, Valjean gave way and began to head inside, but when he finally took a step past Javert, he swayed on his feet. More than a momentary unsteadiness, the swaying continued until it seemed the man might stumble or dash his shoes upon the stones beneath them.

“Valjean?” Javert prompted, but Valjean gave no indication he had heard him. In fact, he gave no indication he was aware of very much at all.

Before Javert could fully register what was happening, the other man crumpled towards him and Javert moved by reflex to catch him, a dead weight in his arms. “Valjean. Valjean, you cannot be serious.”

This close, the stench that emanated from Valjean’s soiled clothing nearly caused Javert to swoon as well. It was a wonder Valjean had remained conscious for as long as he had, saturated in such noxious filth.

No matter how Javert jostled him, Valjean would not rouse, not beyond letting out a pitiful moan that proved he had not simply expired from the strain of the uprising and its aftermath. Checking then, Javert found a steady pulse beneath Valjean’s jaw, and his breathing did not seem distressed, nor pained. A light slap at his bearded cheek still bore no fruit of consciousness, and so Javert found himself at an impasse.

His eyes searched the area around them for inspiration, but found little. Well, then. It wasn’t as if he could leave Valjean outside in this state, what with all the unrest in the streets still unsettled throughout the city. Not even on a normal night could Javert have done so. There was no justice to be found in allowing petty thieves and brigands to accost an unconscious old man, regardless of who that man might be. 

On a normal night, Javert would have knocked on the closest door, at the very least, before going about his business. Such a thing wasn’t even necessary in this case, as Valjean had already seen to the door to his home. 

Javert exhaled roughly through his nose. He would not further compromise himself simply because he was impatient to see the end of his newfound turmoil. And what use was seeing the end of it if the source of said turmoil also met his end? What a waste that would be. What a twisted legacy to leave behind. He meant to spare Valjean, and spare him he shall.

With difficulty, Javert hoisted the other man fully into his arms and shouldered his way up the front steps and through the open door, with little heed for the volume of his boots upon the floorboards. In fact, he hoped the sound of his movements woke the other occupants. His mind would not allow him to leave until he was sure Valjean was sorted. He could not go to his own death without knowing Valjean had survived.

A flurry of footsteps pattered down the stairs then, too many footsteps for only one set of feet. 

“Who has come to call at this hour?” came a young, clear voice. “Has Papa returned at last?”

“I know as much as you, mademoiselle,” came another voice, less clear, less sure.

Both women skittered to a stop on the landing and gazed upon Javert with a fearful wariness that made painfully clear what an odd tableau he presented them, arriving at their door with a filthy, unconscious figure in his arms in the middle of the night. He and Valjean likely looked quite horrifying by lamplight.

“Monsieur? May we help you?”

Javert cleared his throat and found, thankfully, that he could still coax his voice to speak with some semblance of steadiness and authority. “I am Inspector Javert of the Paris police. I believe this man resides at this address.” He shifted so Valjean’s head lolled from its place tucked against his chest to face the pair of women, who let out twin gasps of shock, and spoke at the same time.

“Oh! Monsieur Fauchelevent!”

“Papa! Oh, tell me he is alive, Inspector.”

“He is alive. Unconscious, but alive.” 

“Please, monsieur, please, bring him upstairs if you can!”

Valjean’s daughter led Javert through the house towards Valjean’s bedroom, and her worried curiosity brought forth a number of questions along the way.

”Whatever has happened? Has he been badly hurt?”

“As far as I am aware, he is uninjured.”

“Why is he in such a state, then, Inspector?”

“I am sure you have been made aware of the unrest in the city. He and I were both caught in the midst of it, and have spent many long and trying hours merely attempting to survive the chaos.” 

“It seems remarkable neither of you were badly hurt, then. I only wonder what horrors you have witnessed in the streets.”

“We were not together all the while, so I cannot speak to every trial he had to endure,” Javert said. “It is not an exaggeration, however, to say that I owe my own escape from danger directly to your father, at great risk to himself. I would be committing a grave offense if I were to return the effort with any action but to bring him home to you.”

Her troubled brow quirked with a spark of interest. “Do you know my father outside of this conflict, monsieur? You do not speak of him as one might speak of a stranger.”

At last, they reached the doorway to Valjean’s room.

“Forgive me, I must set him down with haste.”

“Of course,” she said, and skirted around Javert so he might pass her by to enter the room; both she and the housekeeper still followed close behind him. 

Javert lowered himself swiftly to his knees once he had brought Valjean safely into his bedroom, seeking some relief from the solid weight of the other man in his own exhausted state. Still, he kept Valjean braced rather protectively in his arms, more by instinct than anything else at this point. He tried to pat his cheek to rouse him again to no avail, and concern knit his brow.

On the floor like they were, he thought he and Valjean must have made something of a grotesque Pietà, though he hardly thought either woman fretting about with the desire to help Valjean would contemplate such a peculiar comparison; they were likely more in their right minds even steeped in worry than he was at that moment.

“Monsieur?” Valjean’s daughter prompted, drawing Javert’s attention from Valjean, and it took him a short while to remember she had posed a question.

“You are correct in your deduction, mademoiselle. We are not strangers. Our paths have crossed a number of times over many years.”

Despite Javert’s statement only confirming her suspicions, the girl still seemed surprised by his words. “It is fortunate, then, they crossed again tonight, if you have traded rescues during the pandemonium.”

“Fortunate,” Javert repeated, turning the word around in his mind. It was a difficult thought to grasp hold of, but of course from the outside, how could it not seem so? If their paths had not crossed, he would be among the freshly dead watering the streets of Paris with his blood. Anyone would see it as a positive that such a thing had not happened. Most understood little of the righteousness of that sort of fate for a man such as himself, and the hollowness he felt in having missed out on the opportunity to meet it.

A heavy moment passed before Javert could shake himself with force from his drifting melancholy. There were tasks that needed tending, and he would accomplish none of them staring down at Valjean’s dirty face, longing for solace from his mental turmoil.

“I shall have to move him to his bed. If you have an old, threadbare blanket or something similar to spare, it might be of use to protect the bed linen from ruin.”

The housekeeper started for the door before Javert had even finished his sentence.

“And please also fetch us some water, Toussaint,” the girl said to her on her way past. “We must clean some of this filth from Papa as soon as we can.”

“You needn’t soil your own clothing, mademoiselle, madame. I shall see after him, as I have already made a mess of myself carrying him thus far,” he said. “I fear his clothing may need burning once we are through. I doubt there will be any saving it.”

The girl nodded, and worried her lip with her teeth. “You are sure I should not call for a doctor, Inspector?”

“I am not sure of much after the night we have had, mademoiselle. I do believe your father has merely been struck down by exhaustion, so I leave it to you to decide what he would rather you do regarding the doctor.”

Javert felt the weight of the girl’s hand on his shoulder through his greatcoat, an odd sensation. He was not often touched with such gentleness. “Cosette, Inspector. Please call me Cosette. Thank you for bringing my father home.”

The weight of Cosette’s words rested far heavier upon Javert’s shoulders than that of her hand. He let them press and hold him down to the floorboards while he waited to move Valjean. 

Bringing him here had been the right decision. Letting him go free was the right decision. Valjean was worth more alive than Javert was worth. Perhaps, he always had been. 

What had Javert ever done to earn the sort of worry about his well-being Valjean’s daughter displayed for Valjean? What light had he ever brought to the world? He had followed his duty to the letter of the law thanklessly and now no one would mourn him if he were to disappear. 

Valjean would be mourned. He would leave a void in his daughter’s spirit when he passed, never to be filled. Javert’s death would be swallowed up at once amongst innumerable others and he would leave no such void in anyone’s spirit. He had no family. He had not loved, and no one loved him. For the vast majority of his life, that had not bothered him, but tonight…

Javert ran his thumb over the apple of Valjean’s cheek, but still the man did not stir. He refused to entertain the possibility that he might never do so.

When Cosette returned with an old blanket, she spread it over the bed as the housekeeper carried in soap and water and cloths with which to cleanse Valjean. As soon as the space was prepared, Javert summoned all that remained of his strength and managed to lift the man once more to deposit him onto his bed.

“We will leave you now for privacy’s sake, Inspector, but please do no hesitate to call if you require anything more from either of us.”

Javert gave a nod, not quite as stiff or sharp as was his custom. He was much too weary to maintain appearances. “I will, mademoi—Cosette.”

Cosette’s expression softened at Javert’s self-correction. “Good.”

The bedroom door clicked shut behind Cosette, chaining Javert to his mission—not that he would have abandoned it even if given the chance. He had not lied to her with his assurance he would call on her should he need her, but he also could not shirk this responsibility by accepting undue assistance in carrying his rightful burden. This task fell to him alone—and it should.

As Javert attempted to prop him up to sit on the bed so he could remove his coat and waistcoat, Valjean let out a murmur and he reached out to grasp Javert’s coat in his senseless state. 

The shock of the sudden movement was quickly overshadowed by an odd plunging sensation of relief. Valjean had been silent and still as the grave since the sole unintelligible utterance he made when he first fell unconscious, so to hear him now, to feel his iron grip on his coat, caused something that had been wound painfully tight in Javert’s chest to unknot and he could at last breathe deeply again.

Perhaps Javert had in fact been correct when he determined Valjean was indeed only exhausted, not gravely injured in some internal manner that could not be seen, and he would not be lost to the world forever. Perhaps Javert had not somehow killed the man with his decision to set him free.

It was a struggle, but Javert eventually pried Valjean’s fingers loose, earning him another wordless murmur, and worse, what had to be the beginning of a night terror, for Valjean started to rock and fidget and whimper in distress.

For want of a better course of action, Javert attempted to calm the man, laying his hands on him in an approximation of comfort. 

Javert’s hands had never before attempted to soothe. It was simply not in his nature, and he had also not had reason to learn the skill by rote, given his profession. He felt a panic rise in him at his inadequacy in such a task. 

Maybe it was the discomfort of the filth caked on Valjean’s skin that kept him from settling into a restful slumber regardless of Javert’s attempts to calm him. Maybe it was the stench that held him in its clutches, between wakefulness and sleep. In any case, the sooner he was freed of both, the better.

Javert moved to push Valjean’s coat from his still-strong shoulders, then to unbutton Valjean’s waistcoat. He found frustration in his hands’ unsteadiness, in his struggle to properly slip the buttons through their holes pressed as they were against Valjean’s sturdy chest, but nothing he could do would still a tremor brought about by the strain he had so recently endured. Only sleep and perhaps food would steady his hands, and he would have neither until his task was complete.

“Javert,” Valjean slurred against Javert’s shoulder, but it was clear enough what he had said, just as it was clear enough he had not truly stirred to consciousness. 

Did he recognize Javert, even in sleep? If so, he did not sound fearful, despite having every reason to—why should that be? Could he somehow sense he meant him no harm?

Regardless, Javert’s name had no business to be spoken by this man in such a benevolent tone. It deserved only to be spoken in anger, in resentment. That Valjean didn’t cry out for his daughter in this delicate moment, or even for loved ones long departed, seared through Javert like a knife between his ribs. 

Javert’s grasp on what remained of his own sanity was already tenuous at best and this did not help in the slightest. Silent tears flowed freely down his cheeks and dripped onto the crown of Valjean’s head, a futile dilution of the grime there.

How close to death had they both come in these long hours, and how many times had they been close to it? How does one reconcile that, reconcile life continuing after resigning oneself to its end? How did one reconcile a hunted man calling out for his hunter?

“You are safe, monsieur. Safe at home, in your bed. Your daughter is but a room away,” he said, low and firm, as steady as he could manage when everything in him called out for him to break down weeping. “Take care you do not frighten her more than we already have tonight.”

His last words were spoken to Valjean, but also served as a reminder to himself. If Cosette overheard Javert crying whilst shut away in the next room, she would no doubt assume the worst.

Finally, Javert freed Valjean from the waistcoat and found that the cloth beneath was stained and dampened by the fetid water but not caked with muck. It was an improvement, however small; it was progress at last, and as such, spurred him on to finish the job even faster. He wiped his face clean, and his beard, and his hair, his neck and upper chest.

Javert pulled the damp shirttails free from Valjean’s trousers and arranged them to preserve Valjean’s modesty as best as he could, and then painstakingly set about stripping the ruined trousers and stockings from Valjean’s body and scrubbing as much stench from his bare skin as he could manage. He undid the fastenings at Valjean’s wrist and pushed his sleeves up to clean as far as he could before removing the one last vestige of privacy left to the man.

Javert might be lost at sea, but for the moment, this was the sacred duty he longed for—cleansing the foulness from Valjean’s body the way he so desperately needed to cleanse the foulness from his own soul. He set about doing so with a renewed vigor, but with a solemness, too. Like the way one might wash one’s beloved dead before burial—only Valjean had not died, and even if he had, surely he would rise again, a martyr for the sins of others. 

For Javert’s sins.

Javert could hardly stand the idea that Valjean’s daughter, that woman’s daughter, might look at Javert as any sort of savior for caring for Valjean on this single solitary night. He did not deserve her good opinion, nor that of Valjean’s housekeeper, and certainly not Valjean’s.

How could Valjean have endured years of Javert’s haunting torment, only to turn around and spare his life? How could he absorb those decades of misjudgment and absolve Javert in one short encounter? It was not to be borne. No man could be so good, yet Valjean was, and this—this—was how he was thanked for it? To be remanded to the care of the same man who had long hunted him? 

 Javert found a folded nightshirt in Valjean’s wardrobe and placed it on his pillow before he set about unbuttoning his own soiled coat—he would have to brace Valjean against himself to ensure he did not dirty the new clothing with smears from the old or from the sacrificial blanket laid out on the bed. 

Coat dealt with, Javert again pulled Valjean to sit, and further still so his weight could rest upon his chest, and for a moment, he closed his own eyes against Valjean’s warmth. To be so near to the reality of the older man’s still-powerful body would have been a guilty distraction for Javert if he was not already half-mad with the anguish of the events of the past few days. As such, he would not dare to even risk looking where he should not. It was an affront enough that Javert had witnessed Valjean in such a state of weakness at all.

Javert swallowed thickly and peeled off the final filthy garment, Valjean’s shirt, adding it to the pile on the floor. He washed Valjean’s newly bared skin without giving it more than a cursory glance to assure his own thoroughness, acutely aware of the perverse intimacy of the moment.

Finished, Javert took a deep, bracing breath and tugged Valjean to his feet, taking even more of Valjean’s weight than before when the man’s knees refused to hold him upright. Next, Javert retrieved the clean nightshirt and bunched it up so he could more easily slip it over Valjean’s head, but it stuck to his damp skin regardless of Javert’s careful efforts. 

He clenched his teeth as he dragged at the fabric until it freed itself and began to drape its cover down the length of Valjean’s back. His head spun when his clumsy fingers brushed along a few thick raised scars, and he swallowed against the bile rising in his throat. 

That this good man, this saint, this angel made flesh was still marred by those familiar stripes… What had once seemed a just punishment now felt like an outrage. How this man had suffered! And for what? For striving to live? Any man in his right mind would strive to live. That Javert would not and had not was only more evidence he was not in his right mind.

Balancing Valjean against his chest with a hand at his back, Javert reached past him to yank the old blanket clear and at last, he could again lower the unconscious man to the bed. He adjusted his body so he could lie comfortably against the pillow and brushed his damp hair from his forehead where it had already begun to dry from Javert’s perfunctory washing. 

It was almost perplexingly difficult to remove his hands from Valjean’s person, for as long as he held onto him, he would know he still had life in him. Once Javert left him, he would know it no more—doubts would overtake him before long, as doubts had plagued him since the barricade. To leave this man’s presence would mean to lose reassurance of the only thing Javert still knew to be true—Jean Valjean must live.

Javert took a step back from the bed. The floor beneath his feet did not crumble to dust. Another step and his hand fell from Valjean’s hair, but Valjean himself did not suddenly cease to exist.

In fact, Valjean’s chest rose and fell smoothly now, with no frightened hitches in his breathing, no troubled whimpers upon his tongue. Unknowingly, Javert began to match him, breath for breath, as he watched him, and slowly the anxious thudding of his own heart began to ease.

When he could no longer delay the inevitable, Javert took a moment to collect himself, at last turned away from Valjean, and pulled open the bedroom door. 

Before he could open his mouth to speak, Cosette was stood in front of him, questions and concerns in a battle for control of her expression.

“Inspector, is he…?”

“He is resting now. I’ve cleaned him up as best as I could, but he shall require a proper bath once he has recovered his strength. Come, if you wish to see him for a moment, I am certain you will not disturb him.”

Javert stepped aside for Cosette to take in the man asleep on the bed. 

“Oh, Papa…” she said, nearly too quiet to hear, and there was a hint of admonishment in her tone. Something thrummed in Javert’s chest when the first action she took was to try to fix Valjean’s fringe as Javert had done, obviously considering it of similar import to restoring Valjean to his usual appearance.

Cosette did not linger overly long beside Valjean’s bed, her hesitance to wake him before his time clear. Before she took her leave, however, she pulled the blanket up over Valjean and tucked it around his body with gentle, careful hands. It struck Javert how likely it was that Valjean had done the same for her many, many times in the years since he retrieved her from the inn in Montfermeil. 

Javert felt like an intruder on a private moment he had no business being made privy to, all the more so because he had rarely experienced affection of that sort in his own life and even to witness it seemed almost overwhelming in its simple grace. He was no stranger to the base urges of men, even if he was skilled in suppressing them, but this… This here was a concept to which he was a stranger. This was an experience the pining for he was not skilled in suppressing.

He followed Cosette back to the bedroom door, where she laid her hand on his forearm.

“I must thank you again, Inspector. You’ve done more for him than I could have managed. My father is a very modest, private man.” She worried her lip with her teeth for a moment before adding, “I am unsure if he would have allowed me to see him in this state at all if he could have avoided it.” 

Javert was very sure Valjean would have rather not allowed him to see him in his vulnerable state if he could have avoided it, and the knowledge weighed heavily upon him. He nodded to save himself the exertion of speech, and looked away. 

“If I may be so bold… you are clearly worse for wear yourself. Please allow me to ask Toussaint to draw you more clean water—you should not neglect your own needs to tend only to my father. He would not want that of you.”

Javert nodded again with his eyes still fixed on the figure on the bed, who seemed to at last be settling into a restful state more like normal sleep. “Tell her she need not heat it.”

“I hope you will remain here until my father awakes, so he might speak with you about all that has transpired. If you would like, I can also have Toussaint make up the sofa in the drawing room for you to sleep upon, or you could perhaps borrow my bed for the night while I sit up with Papa.”

“I think I ought to stay with him, if it would not be a bother.”

“A bother! Monsieur, it would be a relief!” she said. “If anything should happen to him in the night, you would be there to offer more help than I alone could achieve.”

Javert swallowed against a sudden tightness in his throat. This girl had become an orphan on his authority, and would have become one again if his soul had not shattered beneath the strength of Valjean’s convictions.

She should know who Javert truly was. She should not look upon him and see anyone but a broken, petty man who could not be moved to spare her mother in her moment of need. She should know the past, and judge him whole. 

“Mademoiselle…”

“Monsieur?”

Javert heaved a sigh. He had not the strength to tell her now, lest he collapse at her feet with the effort.

“You should try for at least a few solid hours abed before he wakes,” he said, and then he straightened his back and gave her a short bow. “I promise you, your father will be safe in my care.”

“Thank you, Inspector. I shall leave you now to your ablutions. I hope you too will find peace enough to rest.”

Valjean’s housekeeper brought the water, as promised, and closed the door after she too left him with thanks for his troubles. The quiet in the room was undisturbed by anything save for the faint sounds of Valjean’s thankfully strong and steady breathing.

Javert took stock of himself and his own clothing. His greatcoat might be salvaged yet, but it bore the brunt of tending to Valjean and so had to be set aside until he could scrub it properly. He draped it carefully over a wooden stool so as not to seep its acrid dampness into the floorboards. 

The rest of his clothing was serviceable as it was, for which he was grateful. He removed his waistcoat, his neckcloth, his leather stock, and his boots, and set them aside in a neat pile.

Javert washed his hands and his face, loosening his shirt at the neck to clean his upper chest and back and beneath his arms for good measure, glad to finally be rid of some of the sweat and blood and grime of the failed revolution. The rope burns around his neck and wrists stung—and elsewhere, too, but those abrasions had been blunted by the barrier of his trousers, so they were not quite as raw. As they were in more delicate locations, they would have to wait for proper tending, for it did not feel appropriate to do so in Valjean’s presence after the liberties he had already taken whilst helping the man.

Javert could not yet wrap his mind around whether this good deed might expiate his debt to Valjean for sparing his life, but that was not the only debt he had incurred in carrying out his duty over the decades. Likely not even the only debt owed this very man. One good deed could hardly tip the scales into balance after a lifetime of offenses weighing upon the other side.

Regardless, he could not find the energy to drag himself down to the Seine to assure the balancing of the scales. In fact, he had little more energy than what had been required to shed the restrictive outer layers of his clothing and clean himself, and he barely still had enough even to crawl to lie across the foot of Valjean’s bed. He was asleep before he could think twice about reaching out to grasp one of Valjean’s hands in his, a lifeline forged in flesh and blood encased in warm, callused skin.