Title: be thou grounded
Work ID: 52344979
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fisting, Anal Fisting, Anal Fingering, Shameless Smut, tho it gets a bit sappy here and there, because if anyone was going to have sappy fisting. it’s valvert., Coming Untouched, Established Relationship, Post-Seine, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables), there’s also idk some valjean character introspection, Kinktober 2023
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
It was Javert who taught Valjean to reach out with both hands, to take something for himself—to keep, to hold, to have with him always. To allow the greedy little kernel of desire for love and warmth and companionship to strike tinder, to spark into a small flame that Javert would readily, gladly, eagerly fan into a blaze.

Kinktober 2023, prompt "fisting."

Work text:

He began with a single finger, dipped in oil and merely circling the taut, puckered skin of Javert’s entrance. He pressed gently at the edges of the wrinkled furl until Javert’s cleft was soaked and dripping, Javert’s thighs parting and his hips raising, his entire body open for Valjean in invitation—seeking more, and harder, and faster; urging Valjean without words with every rock of his pelvis toward Valjean’s hand.

Valjean paused, hesitating—not to tease and torment, but to take in and admire the sight laid out on the bedding before him.

Perhaps it was because he had not known love such as this, had not experienced intimacy of this kind; perhaps because a relationship like the one he shared with Javert had come to Valjean so late in life. But Javert, laid out and simultaneously pleading and demanding for Valjean’s touch and Valjean’s cock, had always appeared singularly pleasing to Valjean.

It was not that Valjean was unaware of the fact that neither of them would be viewed as particularly handsome men, with Valjean’s thick scars and sagging wrinkles, or Javert’s severe features and unnerving smile.

But it was Javert who kissed Valjean awake in the mornings, his nightshirt tangled and his greying hair a terror where it stuck up at strange angles. It was Javert who massaged the pained, creaking joints of Valjean’s leg whenever his limp worsened in the cold and the rain, as it seemed to do so often of late. It was Javert who kissed every groove across the ruin of Valjean’s back, and who tucked Valjean against him when Valjean woke from a terrible nightmare that was more memory than dream. It was Javert who first invited Valjean into his bed, as they both learned how to give pleasure and how to receive it; to accept the sentiments of another even when they, in all their doubt and self-recrimination, did not yet know how to feel about themselves.

It was Javert who taught Valjean to reach out with both hands, to take something for himself—to keep, to hold, to have with him always. To allow the greedy little kernel of desire for love and warmth and companionship to strike tinder, to spark into a small flame that Javert would readily, gladly, eagerly fan into a blaze.

Valjean had buried that hopeful, flickering spark for his entire life. He had touch and affection enough in his youth with his sister and her family, and there was little room for avarice beyond that with so many mouths to feed. Valjean had starved any remaining need in Toulon, and had easily ignored the cold ashes of that desire in Montreuil entirely. The years that followed—the precious, too-brief moment where he was Cosette’s papa and she was his entire world—had been more than enough for Valjean and anything he could want of anyone. He would have sat beside her on the divan with his books and praised her needlework until he was in his dotage, until he was on his deathbed. When Cosette excitedly left childhood behind to marry young Marius, Valjean had grit his teeth and unhappily, ruthlessly ground that plaintive little voice begging her not to leave him into oblivion.

Valjean would have never willingly acknowledged it at all: That thirsting, gluttonous, too-human need—a need so great in Valjean especially, and so often denied outright. To touch, and be touched. To be loved and cherished, and to love and cherish in equal measure. To be cared for by another with the same fervor Valjean wished to care for them.

But Javert, who clawed his way back to life from the banks of the Seine and remade himself anew, had little patience for Valjean’s dismissive treatment of his own wants and his own needs, never mind that Javert was still learning how to address what he himself wanted and wished for. Wherever his large, rough hands touched Valjean was a lightning strike, a forest fire, a meteor striking earth; turning sand to glass and coal to diamond and erupting across the dry, brittle leaves of Valjean’s long-ignored desires.

And it was in these twilight years of Valjean’s life, under Javert’s hands, that Valjean learned to ask and want and wish for openly—freely—

To seek Javert’s affection and company. To reach for Javert’s touch. To sate himself, mind and soul and body. To feel satisfied—completely, thoroughly, without censure—that he had what he wanted, and he was wanted by Javert just the same. To preserve and encourage that tiny, selfish spark within him. To allow himself to experience and indulge in his own humanity.

And so the body that squirmed against the bedsheets, thrusting on Valjean’s circling finger, heels digging into the mattress as Javert silently begged Valjean to press further inside of him—it was beautiful to Valjean because it was Javert’s, desirable because it was Javert’s, stirred within Valjean the craving for something more, and more, and more: Because it was Javert’s.

There was no one else Valjean had ever shared this with, had thought he could share this with. Even during the times in his life he had felt loved, and needed, there had never been this—no one that Valjean had ever expected to see this way, or be seen by; to expose and be exposed, wanting and being wanted. There had been no one else in the six and some decades of Valjean’s life who had learned every part of Valjean’s body and every patch of skin, familiar with each line and dip and wrinkle and imperfection that brought Valjean joy, pleasure, passion. And Valjean had never attempted anything similar himself—had not studied nor mapped nor kissed anyone else with tongue and teeth and touch. Valjean had never experienced another person almost as an extension of his own body, to know Javert’s needs in the same way he had come to let Javert know his.

To know Javert so well, to understand every responsive twitch and flutter of Javert’s body; to recognize without asking or being told when Javert had been driven to the point of frustration by the shallow prod of his fingertip inside Javert’s entrance. Valjean leaned over the arc of Javert’s body to mouth apologetically at the soft curves of Javert’s stomach, his chin bumping Javert’s erection as he moved upward. The coarse abrasion of Valjean’s beard drew a startled gasp from Javert’s lips, his hips bucking helplessly in response.

Valjean sunk the oil-slick digit inside the dusky, wrinkled furl of Javert’s hole, trailing along the wet walls of Javert’s passage with the tip of his finger. Valjean stroked along slippery skin as he probed forward gently, purposefully; Javert’s body hot and tight as it bore down, clenching around Valjean’s finger. Javert tipped his head back, long hair already wild and unbound and cascading over his shoulders as he panted, “Yes, God—I thought you’d never—”

“I wouldn’t leave you wanting, my dear,” Valjean said, his finger stroking over Javert’s smooth walls. He thrust in short, aborted movements that did not dislodge his finger from the clutch of Javert’s body; that brought the callused tip of Valjean’s finger closer to the small nub buried within Javert with every incremental push inside.

As an afterthought, Valjean added, “Unless you asked me to first, of course.”

“Certainly not now!” Javert cried, hips swaying over Valjean’s finger, trying to bring Valjean in contact with the bump of his prostate. “If anything—” He swallowed a groan as Valjean’s finger slid over the hidden gland before swiftly retreating. “I would like you to stop toying with me, and do—something—anything.”

“‘Do something’?” Valjean asked, dragging his finger over Javert’s prostate again; skating over the rippling walls of Javert’s hole until only the tip of his finger remained inside the rim, tugging lightly before plunging back inside.

“Fuck me,” Javert demanded.

“I could do that,” Valjean said, agreeably, as he reached for the bottle of oil he had abandoned into the snarled bedding with his other hand. He hurriedly poured another slop of liquid across Javert’s hole, oozing down Javert’s cleft and Valjean’s hand where his finger still slid inside Javert’s passage.

“Or…” Valjean offered, a second finger stroking over the wrinkled skin of Javert’s furl. It slipped easily through the dribble of oil as Valjean pushed the second finger beside the first, sinking into the heated press of Javert’s body. Javert’s entrance parted and reshaped readily around Valjean’s stout fingers as Javert shifted his hips and adjusted the cant of his legs to accommodate this new, small stretch.

“True,” Javert sighed, satisfied for a time with the addition of a second finger, and the flash of that curious feeling of intrusion which rapidly gave way to sparking nerves and the simmering edge of pleasure. “This is not objectionable, either.”

Valjean pushed both digits further inside, Javert’s broad chest and long limbs pooling across the sheets as he sank deeper onto the two probing, questing fingers. His hips rested atop the pillow Valjean had hastily shoved beneath him as they crawled into bed, groaning lowly when Valjean grazed past his prostate again. Valjean rubbed a firm circle around the sensitive nub before drawing back again, rocking his fingers in an imitation of the harder, deeper thrusts Javert was wont to ask for.

“If you meant to do this all night,” Javert said, words gone slow and lax and rich as velvet as Valjean pumped his fingers past the taut circle of Javert’s entrance. Javert’s body was warm and pliant as his hole spread around the steady push of Valjean’s fingers, Javert’s hips lifting languidly in time with Valjean’s thrusts.

Javert kept his arms tucked to either side of his chest, balancing on his elbows as his spine arched. His cock curved red and leaking precome in a messy trail across his navel, while Valjean’s own erection throbbed in answering sympathy. But they had both found their completion with hands and mouths early that morning; some many hours later, their ardor was not yet so urgent that they couldn’t enjoy themselves for a time without feeling the desperate need for release.

“If you mean to do this all night,” Javert tried again, with another lush roll of his hips. Valjean’s hand made a filthy wet sound where it slapped against the oil-soaked skin of Javert’s arse. “I need—”

“I know,” Valjean said, his free hand lifting from the bed to fold around the crook of one of Javert’s bent legs. His thumb traced aimless circles, feeling the wiry prickle of dark hair with each sweep of his thumb. He did not quite know how to explain it to Javert, but—he knew what Javert wanted of him, knew how Javert wailed and pleaded when he wanted more, harder, deeper; needed everything Valjean could give him.

And Valjean wanted… he would of course leave Javert satisfied; but that infinitesimal, searing shard of greed and desire that Javert himself had awoken within Valjean wanted to see… more, and harder, and deeper—

“I know,” Valjean repeated, as he placed a third finger against the flushed skin of Javert’s slicked entrance; as he slipped through the trickle of oil and drank in Javert’s half-bitten cries. He watched the dusky furl sucking in his first two fingers give way beneath the pressure of a third, pushing past the yielding ring of muscle until he had three broad fingers buried in the rippling, contracting warmth of Javert’s hole.

“Like that,” Javert groaned, bracing his weight on his arms as he rutted his hips onto Valjean’s hand, seeking leverage to shove forward where his hole enveloped Valjean’s fingers. Valjean’s palm pressed solid and slick along the curve of Javert’s cheeks. “Just like that—let me—”

And Javert tried to shift his legs and bounce his hips, to gain traction or speed or both; to find purchase on their old, worn mattress to tilt his pelvis against Valjean’s hand, to use Valjean’s fingers to fuck himself.

But Valjean took his hand off Javert’s thigh to lay it flat and heavy on Javert’s collarbone. “Slow down, my dear,” Valjean said. “We have all night.”

“All night, he says,” Javert groused, even as he allowed Valjean to hold his shoulders down against the bedding, the inelegant judder of his hips slowing. His legs sprawled open across the mattress for Valjean to fit more comfortably between them, bent forward and kneeling between Javert’s thighs.

Three of Valjean’s fingers were still buried in that clinging heat as Valjean rotated his wrist, slick digits fanning out over the pulsing walls of Javert’s passage. Valjean could feel Javert relaxing around him; the grip of his furl softening, growing malleable where it stretched around his fingers, the silky glide of the oil as Valjean dove deeper inside.

He skimmed along Javert’s prostate again before withdrawing, holding still; surrounded by wet warmth for a few long seconds while Javert tried to squirm back along Valjean’s hand. After another second to curl his fingers within the narrow channel of Javert’s body, Valjean pushed back again to stroke over the small nub while Javert fisted the bedding and bared his teeth, growling, “Jean Valjean, cease—teasing me—”

Valjean nipped at the closest bit of Javert’s skin he could reach in apology, tasting the salt of sweat as he dragged his tongue over the reddening mark left behind on Javert’s hipbone. He pressed back inside Javert and rubbed deliberately over the soft, spongy bump—allowing his hand to follow the movements of Javert’s hips as Javert cursed and swore and fucked himself along the length of Valjean’s fingers. Javert bent his knees and rolled his pelvis in tandem with the sweep of Valjean’s fingers over his walls; Javert’s cock fully erect and dripping where it swayed against his abdomen.

Valjean felt his palm swallowed up by the warm press of Javert’s cheeks and Javert’s body, holding his fingers over the swell of Javert’s prostate as the other man ground down on Valjean’s hand for a moment longer. Valjean shifted, adjusting the slant of his wrist along Javert’s backside and steadily beginning to withdraw all three fingers—spreading them open, stroking the smooth stretch of skin throbbing beneath his callused fingertips as Javert’s hips tried to chase after the retreating digits.

Javert groaned in earnest, his eyes clamped shut and his expression twisting, face flushed. Valjean’s fingers slipped easily from his hole, the wrinkled flesh ruddy and glistening where Valjean had been overgenerous with the oil. Valjean’s fingers slid down to brush past Javert’s perineum before stroking upward along the dusky furl, teasing tender skin as he bussed another conciliatory kiss against Javert’s knee. He dipped one digit past the puckered rim to watch how readily Javert’s body parted around it, sucking the small intrusion back inside.

Valjean rubbed idly, just to enjoy the gripping heat surrounding his flexing, twisting finger; before sliding back to tug at Javert’s rim, Javert’s hole contracting visibly as Javert’s arousal built. The lean muscle of Javert’s thighs spasmed, and he tried to push down harder onto Valjean’s hand. Valjean grasped for the discarded vial of oil—his finger skidding and sinking further inside Javert in his distraction, pressing the thrumming walls of Javert’s hole as Valjean groped at the bedclothes until he made contact with the little glass bottle.

He drew back his finger once more, Javert all but snarling in frustration—his hips swaying and his hands raking the sheets, moaning, “Jean, I know you said all night—” He pitched his hips again, his cock dark and sticky, his body shuddering with every movement while Valjean dribbled the last of the fluid from the depleted bottle in a messy flood, coating his hand and Javert’s hole and Javert’s spread cheeks.

Javert keened at the copious splatter of oil, panting, “But at this rate—we will still be like this come morni—”

But Javert’s protestations died in a jumbled, broken keen as Valjean held his well-greased digits together in a blunt point, and immediately sank four fingers past the ruddy, constricting rim all the way to the knuckle. In a single slow, steady glide that left them both gasping, Valjean felt Javert’s passage wrap around the thin skin of his hand; Javert whimpering as he finally—finally—felt himself filled.

Valjean’s fingers burrowed deeper, drawing another whine from Javert; the heft of four fingers pressed together was a tantalizing weight not entirely unlike taking Valjean’s length inside of him. But rather than a pounding, rigid shaft, the digits were nimble and exploratory where rough callused fingertips caressed intimate, tender flesh.

Valjean crooked his hand, creeping further, his thumb digging into the delicate, plush swell just below where Javert’s sac hung heavy and aching. He shifted with Javert’s hips as Javert jerked against Valjean’s hand, impatient and demanding and insistent. Javert was unabashed as he followed the mounting pressure of his release, clenching his hole around Valjean’s plunging fingers and moaning at the sensation of knobbly joints and unyielding muscle and bone.

Javert’s cries took on a desperate, fractured edge as Valjean flexed and scissored his fingers, leisurely spreading them apart; bearing down against the rigid clutch of Javert’s walls and feeling the impossible compression of skin and muscle inside. They were usually too impatient—Valjean did not typically slip more than one or two fingers past the familiar clench of Javert’s hole before Javert was batting at his arm and Valjean was slotting between the other man’s legs.

Sometimes Javert would not even allow Valjean the time to prepare him first, would shove Valjean down onto the bed and slide a thigh to either side of Valjean’s waist and ride him to their mutual release, impossibly tight and squeezing around Valjean’s cock almost—almost—to the point of pain. Valjean felt like he was chasing that memory, with four fingers of his hand fanned out inside of Javert. Javert’s entrance was hot and pulsing and oil-slick where it clung to each digit, and God—Valjean had wanted—Valjean had wanted to know, but Javert was still tight, even around four fingers—

“Javert,” Valjean panted, again circling his thumb over that sensitive swell beneath Javert’s balls, watching the way Javert’s length twitched and flexed with every scrape of Valjean’s callused fingertip.

He could not look for too long where his fingers disappeared into the depths of Javert’s body, Javert’s hole stretched and open around him. Valjean’s cock thickened with every digit he pushed inside, aching against the curve of Valjean’s stomach. Finding his release with Javert that morning felt very far away and a very long time ago now, with his erection pounding at his hip. Valjean felt he might spend himself at once if he watched the way the dusky, crinkled skin molded to the shape of his fingers as Valjean thrust lazily into the other man; his rhythm erratic, uneven. He spread and clenched and spread and clenched his fingers, feeling Javert’s hole loosen with each press forward.

“Mmm,” Javert replied, too distracted by rutting his hips forward to fuck himself more easily on Valjean’s fingers for anything more coherent.

“Javert,” Valjean said again, his own voice hoarse and throaty as he felt the thudding heat of Javert’s passage, the easy glide of smooth walls and subtle ridges; Javert’s body rocking against his hand.

Javert’s eyes slit open—the barest glint of silver almost entirely swallowed by black pupil where he looked up at Valjean from beneath the fan of his eyelashes—and Valjean continued, his words rushed and wavering as the burning, greedy ember within urged, “Would you be comfortable with—more?”

Javert did not react right away—his hips were moving with Valjean’s hand, pushing down until he was able to feel the tips of each digit brush over his prostate again, his speed increasing and his mouth dropping open as he felt the low roiling boil of his arousal increase with every urgent thrust.

But then his eyes widened, the flush of his cheeks darkening as Valjean’s question penetrated the pleasant fog of desire, as he realized what Valjean was asking of him. His hole clenched in an involuntary spasm in reaction to Valjean’s words, and Javert’s head thrashed, biting his lips against a whimper.

And Javert was nodding, furiously, hair brushing sweat-damp cheeks; his throat cracking as he gasped, “God—yes, Jean, yes—”

Whatever else Javert had thought to say was lost in a fevered mumble as his pelvis juddered along Valjean’s fingers, his cock hard and drooling against his stomach while Valjean’s length pounded in time with the rapidfire beat of his heart. Valjean almost wished he hadn’t asked; that he would just pull his fingers out right now and yank Javert’s thighs over his own, holding Javert’s hips in place and rutting their lengths together, finesse and skill irrelevant and arbitrary in the face of Javert’s cock stiff and leaking where it slid against his.

But Javert was looking at him with an expectant, heated gaze, now; his hole throbbing around Valjean’s fingers. And Valjean had wondered—Valjean wanted to see, when Javert took him so well, what more would be possible—the covetous, grasping ember within him demanding, seeking, what more could Javert accept of Valjean—

Valjean had upended almost an entire bottle of oil as he stretched and prepared the delicate skin of Javert’s entrance, and the puffy furl still shone in the low light of their bedchamber as Valjean slid his fingers back into place, angling his hand; Javert’s rim taut where it spread over the width of Valjean’s entire palm.

He did not retreat entirely, although he did stroke his fingers along muscled walls, and circle his wrist against the curve of Javert’s arse; Javert shuddering and writhing with every twist. Valjean dragged his callused thumb down delicate skin until his fingertip was pressed against the dilated rim and hovering there, coating his finger with the oil still bathing Javert’s hole and cleft and thighs.

The excess fluid was enough to stain the sheets and pillowcase beneath them to the point of ruin, but it was impossible to care when Valjean watched his thumb push forward. His fingertip snagged lightly on supple flesh, darker than the surrounding skin, furrowed and quivering in tandem with the twitch of Javert’s cock. And then Valjean’s thumb was dipping inside, sliding past the stretched, clinging muscle of Javert’s hole and disappearing into the clutch of Javert’s body; Valjean’s name a gutted, awful, beautiful sound on Javert’s lips.

Valjean speckled light, soothing kisses across Javert’s navel as his hand dug into the plush heft of Javert’s cheeks, slowly working all five fingers further inside. The muscles of Javert’s abdomen jumped and spasmed, a tremor running through his limbs as Valjean’s fingers bore down, Javert’s entrance clenching tightly around the thickest, broadest part of Valjean’s hand as it popped past the wrinkled furl.

Both men winced at the sudden discomfort, and Valjean halted the unhurried, inexorable press of his hand inside Javert’s body. Valjean remained still, his length pulsing against his thigh and Javert’s hole pulsing around his hand, while Javert sucked in deep, edifying breaths, forcibly relaxing himself; unhooking his fingers one by one from the bedsheets. The pressure engulfing Valjean’s hand eased as Javert gave Valjean a curt nod that was little more than a single dip of his chin, and Valjean wriggled his fingers experimentally, drawing a surprised grunt from the other man. With another gentle push past the loosened ring, Valjean felt he could slip forward again without risk of injuring Javert.

Despite their uncertain fumbling, Javert’s erection had scarcely flagged at all. With the bulk of all five of Valjean’s fingers stuffed within him, Javert was sighing contentedly, his body open and easy around the weight of Valjean’s hand; his hips jolting upward with each careful stroke along his passage. Valjean watched as Javert’s lanky limbs unspooled in answer to the progressive slide of Valjean’s hand, Javert whimpering and urging his legs wider with every accidental brush over that delicate nub within him.

Javert nuzzled his cheek into the pillow propped beneath his head, glancing at Valjean from beneath the fallen spray of his hair where it swept across his forehead. His expression was sultry as he bent his knees and rocked his hips, movements practiced and familiar where Javert fucked himself on Valjean’s hand.

Valjean held Javert’s blown-black gaze as he pushed his fingers deeper yet and, oh, his entire hand was wrapped in tight heat—Valjean had to flit his eyes away and down, to watch where his hand was gripped inside Javert’s body. The entire breadth of his hand up to the wrist, Javert’s hole spread taut and clinging around the corded tendons of his wrist, and whatever Valjean might have anticipated had he planned for this outright, it would not been this. He could have easily envisioned the way Javert’s tall, broad frame would look splayed out across their bed, from countless nights spent in a similar fashion; could have imagined the puffy skin of Javert’s entrance that Valjean knew so well when squeezed around his cock.

But Valjean had not pictured the sight of his entire hand, captured within Javert’s body. He had not been able to conjure the way tender, puckered flesh surrendered to the gradual pressure of Valjean’s palm, his wrist. It was somehow almost more explicit—more obscene—when Javert’s wet and ruddy hole was split open by Valjean’s hand instead, Valjean’s arm slipping forward, his hand sliding deeper. Javert was quick to attest to the impressive proportions of Valjean’s shaft, but—his arm, pushing past that stretched rim—

Valjean wetted his lips, his entire body thrumming, overhot and oversensitive, flushed and sweating. His skin felt too small, compressed too thin where it shaped over bone and muscle and frenetic nerve endings. Valjean had never fully understood how he could feel searing heat all along his body and sparking cold at the tips of his extremities like this, feverish and dizzied where he watched, awed, wondering: the heel of his palm resting against smooth walls; his wrist past the distended ring of Javert’s entrance; the edge of his forearm surrounded by constricting muscle.

Javert’s cock leapt with each measured jerk of Valjean’s hand, the shaft dark and glistening with pre-ejaculate; Javert’s expression gone dazed and rapturous as his body moved with Valjean’s thrusts. Javert’s lips were very red and his nipples stiff and pebbled where they poked out from his chest, his hips making slight, stuttering jolts against the pillow beneath him and along the hand inside him—each tiny thrust sucking Valjean’s arm further and deeper still.

Valjean’s fingertips brushed along the silky flesh of Javert’s walls, squirming through the slippery oil, feeling Javert’s very heartbeat encasing his hand, the thin skin where Valjean’s own pulse lay, beating in time with Javert’s. Sweat dripped down Valjean’s temples and his cock dripped pre-ejaculate freely down his shaft, but he managed to scrape together his wits enough to ask, “How are you feeling, my dear?”—each word pulled thin and breathy from Valjean’s throat. He watched his entire hand buried within the spread of Javert’s arse, Javert uttering strange, punched-out little noises with every subtle rock of his pelvis. Javert’s erection was undiminished as he rode the bulk of Valjean’s hand, his elbows still digging into the mattress for balance.

Javert’s limbs visibly shook as he sunk a few more centimeters further down Valjean’s arm, and he sucked in another ragged gulp of air, moaning, “This is—good, Jean, God. Keep going.”

Valjean nodded jerkily, feeling a little lost; stupefied by the sight and the sensation of Javert’s body where it clung to his arm, and not quite sure what much more he could do. His simmering desire for more—of Javert, of what they could do together—had not directed him in any particular way beyond yes and please and want and Javert—Javert—

But Valjean wanted to hear more of those splintered whines Javert made as Valjean slid his hand inside the overwhelming warmth of Javert’s body, Javert’s hole stretched and fluttering around him. With each gutted cry pulled from Javert’s lips, Valjean’s cock pounded against his thigh, Valjean’s balls tight and aching as Valjean had ignored the rising tide of his arousal.

He shuffled awkwardly where he knelt in the space between Javert’s parted legs, rubbing his thighs together in an attempt to bring some relief to his neglected cock. Javert whimpered at the sight of Valjean’s obvious need, Valjean’s length erect and leaking just from watching Javert, from slipping his fingers inside Javert’s body. Javert shook his head in a vain attempt to dislodge the thin strands of hair sticking to his brow and throat and whiskers as he grunted, “If you’d rather—if you want to try something else—”

His words were ripped away in a choked cry as Valjean’s fingers nudged the nub of Javert’s prostate, Javert’s eyes glassy and his expression losing focus as Valjean probed inside his hole.

“No,” Valjean said, even as his free hand trembled with the repressed, maddening desire to touch himself. “But I want—would you—” And Javert understood, and dropped one shoulder; angling his torso to skim one arm down his ribs and stomach, reaching for his own cock. Javert timed his strokes with Valjean’s hand within him, Javert’s fingers a loose sheath where they dragged up his erection and toyed with the head, pulling gently at the foreskin as more fluid dribbled from the slit.

Valjean dropped his chin to dig into his collarbone, a scorching blush streaking down his cheeks, his temples damp with sweat. He worried his lower lip between his teeth, caught between wanting to simply watch Javert as the other man worked a hand over his length and squirmed on Valjean’s arm—and the building, rising ache of his own arousal. Valjean shuffled again, just to feel the slap of his length against his hip; cursing at the too-brief, too-little friction along his shaft, and Javert squeezed the base of his cock to see Valjean unraveling, untouched. Javert angled his legs at the knee and arched his back to shove his pelvis downward to meet Valjean’s thrusts, Javert’s cries gaining volume and his rhythm clumsy, strung out between Valjean’s hand inside him and his own touch along his length.

Valjean tracked where Javert’s fingers fisted around his cock, scant centimeters away from where his hole clung to Valjean’s hand; thinking of Javert’s pleas, keep going, more, yes, always—and inspiration tore through Valjean’s thoughts like a thunderclap, electrifying with intent. Valjean curved the tips of his fingers—deliberately, purposefully—and Javert’s breath stuttered, his grasp around his cock faltering, his eyes gone very round and his mouth very red as Valjean glanced up at him for reassurance, in confirmation, and Javert nodded—“Yes, Jean, yes, like that—”

Valjean began to curl his fingers, his hand prodding along the moist, quivering walls. He hooked each digit, one after the other, into the flat of his palm—before tucking his thumb over the bent joint of his forefinger, Javert’s body rocking minutely on Valjean’s hand. Valjean moved with painstaking, meticulous care; vigilant and infinitely gentle even as Javert’s heels kicked at the rumpled bedding with palpable impatience, his hole stretching and conforming and his nerves buzzing with a confused mixture of signals—too little, too much, too fast, too slow—until he felt it, the unwieldy, impassable girth of it: Until Valjean’s hand was a single, solid fist inside Javert.

They breathed in unison, stunned and a little shaken with their own daring, and Valjean had wondered what more Javert could take within him but he hadn’t known—the way Javert would look with his skin slick with sweat and oil, his stomach and hand smeared with his own precome, muscles trembling with the longing to impale himself on Valjean’s fist where it was buried within him. Valjean held his arm still, blinking rapidly against the sweat along his brow, ignoring Javert’s growing frustration for the moment to allow Javert the time to adjust to the intrusion and the thick, vulgar shape within; Javert’s entrance clenching and relaxing around Valjean’s wrist.

Valjean’s cock throbbed, another spurt of salt-sticky fluid beading at the tip, as Javert began to roll his hips again in short, cautious movements—Javert’s hand on his length stilled and his other arm bearing his weight as he tested how to take the unwieldy press of Valjean’s fist further inside him. Valjean’s balls were drawn up tight beneath his shaft, gooseflesh tingling over skin suffused with warmth; his vision blurry and unfocused with blind need as he watched the clench of Javert’s rim and simultaneously felt the thrumming heat where Javert’s walls molded around his fist.

Javert circled his hips a few times more, pumping his length back to full hardness, before giving Valjean another one of his terse nods—urging Valjean to push forward, to sink into the clenching depth of Javert’s body. Valjean absorbed each minute reaction from the other man: the way Javert’s fingers firmed around his cock; the sweep of his eyelashes; his tongue darting out to trace thin lips. Javert’s cock jumped in his grasp when the side of Valjean’s fist made contact with the swollen nub of his prostate, and Valjean kneading the spongy bump with the curve of his hand, Javert’s hips tilting forward.

Javert moved with greater care than his typical fervid shoves along Valjean’s cock, but Javert’s length was fat and red in his hand and his face was contorted with desperation for his release, and Valjean thrust his fist again—slowly still, but deeper, inside the rippling walls of Javert’s passage; where Valjean could feel Javert’s prostate grind along the heel of his palm and feel the smooth ridges of muscle as he inched the thick, scarred meat of his wrist further, faster—

Unable to tear his eyes away, Valjean dug his teeth into his lip more forcefully to resist gaping open-mouthed like a fool at the sheer impossible enormity of his hand, his wrist, his arm plunged inside Javert’s body, Javert’s hole swollen where it clung to Valjean’s limb. Javert’s hips moved in jagged, halting thrusts; building up momentum as he spiraled toward completion with each nudge within him.

And Valjean has seen and known Javert in nearly every way one man can see and know another. Javert cold and merciless in his pursuit of justice, and Javert livid in righteous anger. Javert shattered and disbelieving when faced with true mercy; Javert by turns distant and awkward in his repentance. Javert drenched in filthy water, Javert delirious with fever, Javert overwhelmed by guilt and grief. Javert soft and tentative in the first, nascent blush of terrifying and wondrous love—blind and unknowing after so many decades alone, anxious and stumbling just to hold Valjean’s hand or stroke Valjean’s cheek.

Javert, gasping and winded and red-faced from Valjean’s mouth and Valjean’s touch; a secret, knowing, contended glow brightening his gaze the first time he took Valjean inside of him. And after—when Valjean gathered Javert into his arms and whispered sweet words into the fragile shell of Javert’s ear, peppering kisses over the severe creases around Javert’s mouth, his nose, his cheeks.

Valjean has seen and known Javert in countless ways, has been seen and known in return. Yet sometimes Valjean forgets that there are still more expressions to study and to learn, new ways he and Javert can hold and caress and witness one another, even now. He did not expect the wreck of Javert’s body where Javert spears himself on Valjean’s fist, Javert’s hair a tangled snarl across their pillows, his skin shining with exertion.

Valjean’s cock jerked—his balls throbbing, his shaft shining with pre-ejaculate and achingly, devastatingly, unbearably hard—and Valjean could feel it, the precipice of his release. Valjean’s body was wrung out where he watched his arm disappear inside Javert, where his cock twitched and bobbed between his legs, brushing against his thigh again. Where Valjean felt that voracious, insensate fire—the mad greed to hold and possess and be held and possessed in kind—become, for that moment, complete—and there it was: the sudden plunge. The descent.

His completion swept over him in a wave Valjean felt down to his toes, nerves prickling, unable to look away from where he still plunged his wrist, his hand, his fist inside Javert; even as Valjean painted his chest with his own seed. Valjean would have assumed his release would not last so long as it might have if he and Javert had not already come together earlier that day, but his delayed completion spiraled down his spine, his cock quivering with each gush of his spend, his balls emptying across Valjean’s pectorals. But Valjean scarcely noticed the startling intensity of his orgasm even as he shivered through the aftershocks, his stare caught on the flutter of Javert’s hole.

The entire length of Javert’s body was by turns tense and liquid, his gaze bright and ravenous as he watched Valjean spend himself, tilting his head back and groaning Valjean’s name as he poured himself around the blunt force of Valjean’s fist buried within him. The circle of Javert’s fingers around his cock moved rapidly, carelessly, and his wary, astonished nudges began to give way to forceful shoves; so much like their first floundering attempts together that Valjean had to laugh, just a little.

Javert tried to look cross at Valjean’s breathless chuckling, but could not maintain his scowl when faced by Valjean’s fond smile, the lines of his face relaxing. He followed the final, cresting surge of his impending release on Valjean’s fist, his voice like scattered gravel across his tongue as he rasped, “You are the most peculiar man—sometimes—Jean!”

Javert ground his pelvis down, the weight of his hips crushing Valjean’s arm to the bed, pinning Valjean’s wrist at an odd angle. Valjean listed sideways to relieve the pressure, paying little attention to the discomfort—hardly caring—because Javert rocked a few more times, Javert’s hand stilling on his length as he reached his peak. Javert released in long, pulsing bursts of seed that striped his stomach, his feet scrambling along the mattress as he sucked in great lungfuls of air.

Valjean did not uncurl his fingers then, but he did flex them against his palm just to watch the flicker of lingering pleasure that darted across Javert’s face; just to hear the guttural moan of Javert’s voice as he said, “Mercy, please, I have nothing more to give—” only for another fitful trickle of spend to spill down his softening length, Javert’s steady strokes on his cock slowing before he pulled away completely.

Valjean felt like he could not catch his breath, felt a fierce desire that had nothing to do with his own cock lying flaccid and quiescent on his thigh—because Javert spent himself while stretched around Valjean’s hand, Valjean’s arm, for Valjean alone; for Valjean to capture another greedy, possessive piece of Javert for himself that only Valjean knows, that only Valjean could bear witness to.

But Javert was wriggling, wiping his hand—tacky with spend—along the blankets bunched by his thigh, the motion jostling his spread hole over Valjean’s fist. He grimaced slightly, chafed and sensitive in the wake of his completion, but did not ask Valjean to pull away; instead attempting to resettle back against the pillows. Yet Valjean’s body was also beginning to express its own complaints that it had been misused too vigorously that night. Valjean ducked his head, somewhat chagrined that they had not at least tried this sometime when they were, perhaps, better rested; rather than at the end of a long day.

It was more difficult than usual to rearrange themselves: it was not the familiar pull of Valjean’s cock out of Javert’s stretched passage, eased by the remaining oil and Valjean’s own seed. It was not a quick untangling of arms and legs to fall at Javert’s side in an exhausted heap and hope to avoid any of the wet splotches cooling on the bedclothes.

Withdrawing his hand—his fist—was more trial and error than Valjean would have liked. Javert hissed as Valjean uncoiled his fingers while still inside the other man, but made no objections otherwise. Indeed, there was a queer look on Javert’s face, a contemplative glint in his eyes that suggested that despite Javert’s tired limbs and well-used body, Javert would still not mind so very much if they could somehow manage to rouse themselves for a third time that day.

With another glance at Javert, Valjean worked to carefully withdraw his fingers from Javert’s hole, still damp with oil, as the other man gave his sluggish hips and overwrought muscles one last hitch upward—Valjean’s skin markedly sensitive after so long buried inside Javert. It was messy and slow-going and neither of them quite knew what they should be doing, not unlike the early days of intimacy when each kiss and caress was an undiscovered country, yet unseen.

But eventually Valjean’s hand was entirely free of Javert’s body, Javert’s hole open and gaping and clenching on air—achingly empty without Valjean to fill him. Valjean brushed trembling fingers over the slack rim, hearing Javert’s strangled sob and watching the stretched ring flutter beneath his touch before pulling his hand away.

Valjean pondered the magnitude of hauling himself all the way up to the headboard to steal a pillow as opposed to simply collapsing between Javert’s legs, but Javert was shuffling creaking limbs and warily folding sore legs back together, cursing the twinge in his pelvis after far too long with his knees held wide; and Valjean was forced to decide to flop to one side or the other lest he be trapped within the cage of Javert’s thighs.

Not a terrible outcome usually, Valjean could concede, but perhaps overambitious for the time being. He arranged himself beside the length of Javert’s tall frame and sighed gustily into the crook of Javert’s neck, stirring the hair tumbling over Javert’s shoulder and very much of the opinion that they had both earned a week-long holiday.

But Valjean’s skin was still vibrating with the vestiges of his release, and his head was still swimming and his heart overfull with the sight and feel and taste of Javert—and Valjean did not want to sleep just yet. He trailed his clean hand up Javert’s throat and along his jaw, digging his fingers into the prodigious growth of Javert’s whiskers to cant Javert’s head to face Valjean’s. Javert’s tired, half-lidded expression was a mirror for Valjean’s own, and Valjean tipped his body forward to meet the other man’s lips in a chaste kiss.

Javert relaxed in increments wherever Valjean pressed along his body, meeting each brush of mouth over mouth while Valjean folded his arm over Javert’s chest, to better angle Javert’s face toward him. Their kisses were light, unhurried, but Valjean noted the way Javert’s limbs shook as his back settled more solidly into the dip of the mattress, the stifled oath against Valjean’s mouth wherever Valjean’s bulk pinned him.

Valjean made a mental note to dig around their dresser drawers after they had both rested—there were tinctures and ointments that had seen regular use over the years, as their advancing age and respective enthusiasm did not always agree with one another. It had been some time since they had tried anything uncommonly adventurous, and perhaps it would be worth the mess and pile of stained towels to also use that salve that Javert so liked for pained limbs and swollen joints. Javert would likely forget entirely to allow himself the indulgence, but Valjean knew it would not be terribly difficult to entice the other man with the promise of soothing stiff tendons and rubbing the knots out of bunched and abused muscles.

Valjean brushed another kiss against Javert’s reddened lips, their plans for the morning already shaping up to be quite promising, before pulling back to meet Javert’s gaze once more.

Javert had settled more securely against the pillows, and his eyes traced Valjean’s features as he had a thousand times before as he murmured, “You never cease to surprise me.” The words ghosted over Valjean’s face in a puff of air, and one sleep-heavy hand lifted to grope at Valjean’s neck and back and shoulders, Javert’s fingers carding through the mat of hair running down Valjean’s forearm as he held Valjean against him in a loose embrace. Javert’s tone was curious as he tried, “Did you enjoy…” before he bit his lip, considering.

Valjean waited, patient, as Javert searched for a specific phrase or a precise string of words; eventually settling on simply asking, “Was that what you were wanting, Jean?”

“I enjoy everything we do together,” Valjean said, responding to Javert’s only half-vocalized question first as he nestled closer to Javert’s body. He dropped his hand from Javert’s cheek to reach across the breadth of Javert’s torso, nuzzling closer; Javert huffing fondly at Valjean’s sentiment. He dug his fingers into Valjean’s curls, his eyes crinkling at the corners as he turned to Valjean that smile of too much gum and too many teeth—a smile perhaps unlovely to anyone else, but impossibly dear to Valjean.

Valjean ducked his head and nosed into the hollow where neck met collarbone, where Valjean could feather kisses over Javert’s skin and breathe in the lingering notes of sandalwood and ink and boot polish that Valjean knew so well, mixed with the heavy musk of their release. Feeling his body move against Javert’s chest with every gusty inhale, Valjean whispered into Javert’s throat, “And, I want anything you will give me.”

He thought they should make another attempt at arraying their sleepy jumble of limbs—Valjean could feel the bony jut of Javert’s arm trapped under his, and the sheets beneath them were too knotted around their ankles for Valjean to sling his leg over Javert’s the way he wanted to. But Valjean had one hand tucked over Javert’s chest, and Javert had one hand tucked over Valjean’s in turn, and the juncture at the base of Javert’s throat was a remarkably comfortable pillow. This close, he could feel the thrum of Javert’s heartbeat vibrating through his skin, and the whisper of Javert’s breathing where it ruffled Valjean’s hair.

Valjean does not have to strain at all to hear Javert’s quiet words, spoken in an undertone while Javert held their laced hands tight to his breastbone. “And I, you. I want every part of you, Jean, always.”

He felt that greedy kernel spark within his breast again, that need for more and now and forever—to give Javert everything Javert could want of him; to receive everything the other man could offer him in return. Valjean exhaled, noisy and shuddering across Javert’s throat, and ignored the squash of their limbs in strange places and trapped by snarled sheets.

Valjean relaxed fully against the flat planes of Javert’s body; at peace, as slumber drifted closer, with his desire—the need to be needed, the necessity of feeling any need at all: for comfort, for passion, for love.

So long ignored until Javert first pressed against him with hands and lips and a greed of Javert’s own, different and the same in all the ways that fitted and locked into place with Valjean’s. Javert had yearned nearly from the start with a hunger Valjean knew and Valjean recognized and Valjean warily, laboriously, eventually began to meet with a matching hunger of his own—fanned into life by the inferno lit between them whenever Valjean held Javert close, and then lay redolent and satiated in the glowing embers of their ardor thereafter.

“I can hear you thinking from here,” Javert muttered from above Valjean’s head. “Get some rest, Valjean.”

Valjean snuggled closer into the familiar lines of Javert’s body—a body that was scarred and wrinkled and sagging like his own; a body that was warm and throbbing and starving, like his own, to be touched and kissed and stroked and held (and claimed, and needed, and wanted—)

Their sagging wrinkles and their rough skin and their hidden longings came from different sources, from different places, and they did not always reflect each other; but they found where they could slot together, where they could complement one another, where they could sate their varying desires to mutual satisfaction—and Valjean had found that to be all the more gratifying, in the end.

Valjean rested his lips against the reassuring thud of Javert’s pulse, his eyelids slipping closed against the warm, sheltering dark creeping along the fringes of his consciousness; and he slept.