Title: Similia similibus cognoscitur
Work ID: 1132424
Author: MadMoro
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Madeleine Era, Top Javert, Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
“Of all the men in this town, you would choose me ... why, monsieur le Maire?"

Work text:

Monsieur Madeleine shifted nervously from one foot to the other, crushing between his broad palms his unfortunate hat. He was rather desperately trying to think up a false reason for why he had come to his inspector's quarters, but nothing leapt to mind. So he said nothing, merely continued to stand just inside the door, staring at the floor while the Inspector surveyed him with an unreadable expression on his face.
It was Javert who broke the silence. “Of all the men in this town, you would choose me.”
These words forced Madeleine to raise his head and look at his interlocutor. Javert was sitting on the only chair in his chamber, reclining and appearing at his ease. It was obvious he felt himself master of the situation. His shirt-collar was carelessly unbuttoned, revealing at the neck a triangle of light skin speckled with dark short hairs. This was where Madeleine’s gaze lingered. Javert seemed to know it, for a small smile curved his lips.
“Why, Monsieur le Maire?”
"I like you," said Madeleine promptly. He had expected this questions and had rehearsed his resonse several hundred times during the walk from the mairie. In truth, Madeleine himself wasn't sure of the answer. All he knew was that it must be Javert and no one else. Perhaps there was no explanation. Perhaps it was simply a matter of taste.
Javert made a sound. It little resembled a laugh, but nevertheless a laugh it was. A sharp grin sliced across his face.
“Leave such answers to the ladies and to those beardless boys who write poems about love and dying roses. Why have you chosen me? This town has quite a number of men of various ages and inclinations, who would leap into your bed with great delight if you crooked your finger at them. And yet you are here in my lodgings. Perhaps you should be in the back room of the tavern Chez Louis with one of those languid effeminate types - or perhaps one of the rough ones, or whatever sort pleases you.”
Madeleine had heard about Chez Louis but had never been there. In fact he did not even dare to walk past its doors. Despite the knowledge that it was not, strictly speaking, a crime to indulge his particular vice, he had always had the inner conviction that doing so would make him a criminal. It was also dangerous for a man in his exalted position to be seen in such a place, for a mayor is watched by everyone in town. If he were Valjean and not Madeleine, everything would be easier. Although if he were Valjean he would likely have larger concerns than the maintenance of his reputation and the satisfaction of his lust.
“And you -- have you been inside that place, Inspector?” Madeleine had a moment of unpleasant feeling as he imagined Javert surrounded by lithe young men trying to catch his eye.
The Inspector winced as if disgusted. Apparently he had imagined the same scene as Monsieur le Maire. “Only as a police officer; not as a customer. And do not evade the question.”
“I trust you,” said Madeleine. He was turning his hat around and around in his hands. “Does this answer please you?” This brought another grating laugh from Javert.
“It pleases me enough. Take off your clothes.”
Madeleine was taken aback by the abruptness of the command and looked away in embarrassment. The Inspector was indeed master of their situation. This was his territory and he made the rules.
“Or,” Javert reflected, “perhaps you prefer me to undress you?”
Rising, he moved in on Madeleine like a stalking predator. His step was soft and quiet, although every floorboard in the room seemed to have its own voice. He glided forward in a walk that resembled the crouch of a beast about to spring. Madeleine stared in hypnotic fascination. By the time the enchantment broke, the Inspector was so close upon him that he fought to keep from flinching. He had never seen Javert so close – not even in Toulon when he was still Valjean.
Javert never let people close. He was aloof and he served the law; no emotion was ever permitted to reveal itself on his face. Why was he approaching now? Perhaps secretly, he too wanted this: to be exposed. Perhaps he wanted this particularly from Monsieur le Maire.
Madeleine withstood the Inspector's stare but gasped when Javert put a hand on his neck. It was a warm hand and surprisingly soft; it was not the hand Madeleine expected of a police inspector and former prison guard. Javert's face remained impassive but a flicker of excitement showed in the depths of his eyes. With soft palms and dexterous fingers he stroked Madeleine's cheeks and traced his brow, before shifting his attentions lower to explore Madeleine’s body through the layers of clothes. He prodded here and there and gently cupped parts of Madeleine’s physique, as if examining a horse put up for sale. He was quite thorough; in fact the only thing lacking, Madeleine thought, was for Javert to examine the state of his teeth. He said as much. This brought a sly smirk to one corner of the Inspector's lips.
“Open your mouth.”
“It was a joke, Javert.” Madeleine looked away.
“Is something not to your liking, Monsieur le Maire?” Not even the shadow of a smile remained, and Javert grasped Madeleine's chin with a steel grip. “Open your mouth.”
This time, Madeleine obeyed. Strange how easily obedience came to him. He gave it of his own free will, needing no whip or blow - as Valjean used to, when this same man issued him orders long ago.
Javert’s face came even closer, and Madeleine, heart beating quicker, held his breath and closed his eyes. The tip of Javert’s tongue touched his lower lip, tasting and considering as if Javert were deciding something for himself. Apparently he came quickly to a decision, for immediately Madeleine felt the moist heat of the Inspector’s mouth against his lips.
Valjean had perhaps once given kisses - innocent ones, as when sending his nephews to bed or kissing his own mother when he was a child -- but Madeleine had never kissed or been kissed. He lost himself in the delight of it. He learned quickly, at first copying the actions of Javert until he comprehended the basic movements, and then surrendering completely to the will of intuition and emotion. He didn't notice that he was being pressed against the door. He was burning in his layered clothing like a man in a fever. He clenched Javert closer. Through the pulse of his blood and the general tumult within him, Madeleine heard a sound. It took him a moment to recognize this as his own moan. It was the moan of a man who hungered.
Simultaneously, the Inspector pushed his knee between Madeleine's legs and pulled away his greatcoat.
“You have too many clothes on,” Javert said as he brushed his lips over Madeleine's cheek.
“For the first time, Inspector, I agree with you.”
Madeleine threw off the heavy cloak and began to unbutton his waistcoat. Javert pulled at the knot of Madeleine’s cravat to expose his neck which he immediately claimed with a hot sucking kiss. “Oh, God,” Madeleine groaned. His fingers stuttered. One of the buttons, torn off, rolled on the floor.
How was it possible that within a man as cold as Javert could dwell such heat and hunger for another man? An irreproachable servant of the law; that was Javert: overly honest; free of every kind of desire or covetousness; upright, self-denying, never bending. Yet his mouth was a dark devouring flame at Madeleine’s throat. Who was Javert? Madeleine had never seen beyond his façade and neither had Valjean; for over twenty years, Javert had kept himself to himself like a locked box. But Madeleine was learning him now as if they had just met. It was strange and exciting. He liked what he was learning. It was a fact, simple and true: Madeleine liked Javert. Even Valjean, despite his bleak memories, began to like Javert.
The waistcoat, like the greatcoat, dropped to the floor. Madeleine pulled off the Inspector’s shirt and threw it down too. He thrilled to see Javert out of his uniform, and to see him like this: reddened face, swollen mouth, darkly shining eyes: a man who was prepared to bare himself in every way. Madeleine passed his fingers through the short hairs of the Inspector's chest and stroked the springy planes of his muscles. Javert covered his mayor’s hand with his own and took control of it. Gently, he pulled it down between their bodies, between their chests that heaved as though from running, over his tense abdomen, and finally over the bulge inside his trousers. His hardness swelled, barely fitting in Madeleine's broad palm.
Madeleine gripped it and the Inspector sucked air through his clenched teeth. With his fingers Madeleine traced the contours of Javert's cock, judging its shape and weight. The rough fabric of Javert’s trousers kept Madeleine from feeling the heat and tension of the flesh, and this separation maddened him; he longed for more. He wanted to strip Javert’s remaining clothes and then his own. He wanted to explore Javert's body through his own body and see it entirely. He wanted no obstacles to his learning of Javert.
He had seen many men. In Toulon, prisoners were doomed to see what they would never choose to look at of their own free will: tired bodies of different sizes and ages, dressed or naked, relaxed or excited, ugly or not without beauty. Valjean had seen all and touched none. In prison he had been concerned with things harder and more bitter than the bodies of other men. But now Toulon and Jean Valjean were only memories. And now, to merely see a man was not enough.
In Montreuil-sur-Mer, Madeleine generally saw Javert several times a day: in the evening when he presented his reports, and in the street, and occasionally when he stopped at the factory to report any important occurrence which Javert thought a mayor should know of quickly. Sometimes Madeleine himself summoned him on a silly pretext. Madeleine had looked at the Inspector in his close-fitting uniform and learned hunger, from which Valjean had, in the hardships of Toulon, been spared.
“You still have too many clothes on, Monsieur.” Madeleine’s fingers continued to stroke Javert’s cock through the fabric of his trousers.
“Remedy it then.”
Madeleine didn't recognize his own voice, which now was low and hoarse like that of a feverish man. Perhaps this was as it should be: perhaps they were both ill, he and Javert, and this illness had damaged their minds. In fact it must be so – for how else to explain what happened next: that Madeleine allowed Javert to remove his shirt and bare the ragged scars beneath, and Javert tracked the raised and puckered marks with hot, eager hands but asked no questions. Perhaps he did not want to know the answers. “With great wisdom comes great sorrow,” goes the old saying; perhaps Javert preferred to remain unwise at this moment. Madeleine had various explanations prepared, just in case the scars caused comment, but he was glad he didn’t have to use them.
Javert's bed was narrow but this bothered neither Monsieur le Maire nor the Inspector – in fact, a narrow bed was suited to their aims. Naked, they pressed into each other and tried to cover one another with their bodies. Madeleine ceded the territory of himself entirely to Javert. He had come here, not to Chez Louis for a pretty boy, not to the docks for one of those women who can be paid to satisfy the lust of any man. He was not any man. He did not want or need what other men wanted and needed. He needed Javert -- needed him as Madeleine and as Valjean. In Javert’s narrow bed, both the men that he was at last found peace.
He exposed his neck and chest to the Inspector’s mouth. Willingly he responded to every caress, arching towards Javert's body. He abandoned the world and surrendered to sensation. Never had he been touched like this and never had his body longed for touching. Madeleine had never thought that one day he would gasp like a fish on the sand, or convulse under another man's weight on sweat-soaked sheets.
“Please.” His words sounded in his ears like a plea for mercy. In fact, that is what they were. Valjean, nineteen years a slave, had never once begged - but Madeleine was a free man. He could not wait any longer, hung painfully on the hook, wanting more. The remains of his self-control deserted him and he groaned and rubbed his aching cock on Javert’s warm solid thigh, which pressed back hard against his groin.
“Please what?” Javert looked down at Madeleine.
“Take me—please—“
If Monsieur le Maire’s request gave any pleasure to Javert, he did not show it. Pushing himself up on straight arms he balanced his weight over Madeleine. “Monsieur le Maire,” he said with a curt nod, like a stiff Inspector of Police concluding his evening report.
Madeleine moaned as Javert spread his legs and settled between them. He should feel shame, he knew, but there was none. His desire burned hot enough to sear away all other mental torments.
The Inspector's palms slid along his inner thighs, sometimes closing in, sometimes retreating. Madeleine moaned in anguish. All he wanted was to feel those soft palms clasp his suffering flesh. He raised a lust-clouded gaze to the Inspector and Javert looked back. Madeleine could feel the Inspector's erect, leaking cock slide and push between his thighs. Javert grinned, making a lewd hand motion that simulated the act of penetration, and Madeleine cried out desperately. Javert's hips pressed against his own. The Inspector leaned down for a kiss and Madeleine readily pressed his parted lips against Javert's mouth and rubbed himself uncontrollably against the Inspector's groin.
Madeleine did not know if he was Madeleine anymore; in the shimmering heat of lust he had lost track of his own name. Javert’s kisses made him dizzy; Javert’s touch made his body burn. Then Javert broke the kiss and brought his fingers up instead, pushing them into Madeleine's mouth. Madeleine yielded to them. By God, he could not get enough. He imagined how it would be to have, instead of fingers, the Inspector’s cock filling his mouth as he slid his tongue over it and sucked at its hot heaviness. How would Javert look as he watched Madeleine open his mouth to it? This thought provoked him into a low and throaty moan. His fantasy was abruptly severed, however, when the Inspector pulled his fingers out leaving Madeleine empty. The emptiness cried out to be filled. That was his understanding of desire: an aching void that begged for attention, begged to be filled, sought its own destruction. He ached for Javert. Javert could make him whole.
Madeleine watched the Inspector push his dripping fingers next into his own mouth. Perhaps he wanted to himself feel the pleasure that he had just seen on the face of Monsieur le Maire. Perhaps he meant to reflect back on Madeleine his own dissolution, to show him how shameful a man looked while he sucked with his mouth filled. Dissolute it looked, indeed, but Madeleine felt no shame. Rather, he experienced a vague and inexplicable pride.
Javert settled himself more comfortably between Madeleine's legs and, leaning closer, pushed a single saliva-slippery finger up inside him. It was a strange sensation to Madeleine – neither unpleasant nor enjoyable; only strange. Javert added a second finger and now Madeleine gasped, opening his eyes wide and moving his hips to deepen the penetration. He could feel himself stretching open, could feel the fingers move inside his body. They brushed up against something inside him that awoke and shivered and groaned with desire to be touched again. He thrust himself back on Javert's fingers, whimpering.
“More... please... more…,” Madeleine begged. He was panting and he dug his fingers into the damp sheets.
“Greed is a sin, Monsieur le Maire,” Javert said with a grin. But he added another finger. Then he crooked all three at once and Madeleine could not keep himself from crying out.
“Oh my God,” he moaned. “Oh God—“
Monsieur le Maire, the man of decorum, was gone. Nothing of him remained. The façade crashed down to dust, exposing what lay behind it: a man of overwhelming lust, the man who was truly Jean Valjean, no more and no less, his eyes wild and his mouth open in sweet agony.
“Please... my God, please…” Madeleine twisted on the sheets and thrust his hips, trying to push himself deeper on Javert's fingers, whimpering like a child when the pleasure of penetration became too fleeting. He longed, he hungered, he needed. He did not know what he was begging for, but he understood that he needed to beg, needed to cry out for it. No pride or shame remained to stop him.
Javert positioned his cock and entered him with one short thrust, pulling Madeleine’s hips close against his own. Madeleine uttered a triumphant cry. If this was not Heaven, it was close enough to fall within Heaven’s light. He gasped. Each hard push of Javert’s cock opened him further and forced him to draw another sharp moaning breath.
“Kiss me,” Madeleine groaned. He reached out his hand, and Javert allowed himself to be pulled close. He pushed his tongue hard into Madeleine's mouth and crumpled Madeleine's lips with his own. The kiss was slow and unhurried, melting Madeleine as he clung to Javert’s body and rocked with the rhythmic and strong thrusts of Javert's thighs. He was afraid of how easily he had given himself to Javert, how easily he had trusted him and revealed himself: his scarred chest, his true self, Jean Valjean. But he could not think of that now. He could think of nothing now, but the irresistible agony swelling inside him.
“Oh God,” Madeleine whispered, clutching at Javert’s shoulders, “it's good... Please, harder...” And Javert took him harder. Under their united, pulsating bodies, the narrow bed shook and banged against the wall. Distantly, Madeleine rejoiced that Javert’s quarters had thick walls and no neighbors within earshot.
Madeleine's cock demanded attention. Painfully tense, it was pressed to his abdomen, leaving sticky traces of fluid on his skin and dark hair. Madeleine tried to relieve his own desperation, but Javert grabbed his hands and pinned them behind his head, against the pillow. Madeleine groaned helplessly. His great strength, which would have let him escape Javert’s grip without much difficulty, was forgotten. Perhaps it was lost entirely.
“Masturbate in your own bedroom, Monsieur le Maire,” hissed the Inspector, thrusting his hips. Madeleine made an incoherent noise which he meant as agreement. He would agree to anything. He would do anything Javert wanted. If Javert demanded his true name, he would shout it aloud. If Javert commanded him to surrender to justice, to face execution, he would not hesitate.
The Inspector's face contorted. His previously rhythmic movements became stuttering. He was looming above Madeleine with sweat running down his temples and neck, small droplets clinging to his eyebrows. The hot wave that had been building within Madeleine now rose until it towered over him and could rise no higher. Then, breaking, the wave swept through his entire body. It forced him to strain upward and with a final groan press his seeking lips to Javert's lips. Javert shut his eyes and muttered something into Madeleine's mouth. Then Madeleine felt Javert’s release and a gush of hot semen filled him. The room was swimming before his eyes; the ringing in his ears rendered him deaf.
The Inspector collapsed on top of him. He released Madeleine’s wrists, and then he heaved a great, satisfied breath. Madeleine didn't feel the weight of Javert's body or of his own; he was floating still in the country close to Heaven. He wrapped his arms around Javert and pulled him into a hug. Javert, unresisting, buried his face in curve of Madeleine's neck.
He did not know how long they lay like this - without saying a word, without moving. The sweat on their bodies began to cool. Madeleine began to experience some discomfort where Javert still filled him and made him whole.
“Inspector,” he said. He ran his hand over Javert's back. “I should go.”
The Inspector nodded. He extricated himself from Madeleine’s embrace and sat down on the bed. Madeleine used a corner of the sheet to wipe traces of his own semen from his abdomen and Javert's thick fluid from between his thighs. Then he stood and began to collect the scattered clothes. Every step made him sore, but Madeleine didn't mind. For the evening’s pastime he would spend a day or three limping. Everything has a price, and this was a fair one. Madeleine was willing to pay.
He dressed quickly, putting himself back together so neatly that all traces of the recent debauchery were disguised and he looked as if he had just arrived. Javert watched him. Madeleine felt his heavy gaze. It had been glorious, but of course he would not come back. “Inspector,” he said. His hand was on the doorknob. He opened his mouth to say goodbye, as there was nothing else left to say.
Instead he heard himself say, “I'll come next week at this same time.”
Madeleine had not planned to come back, but something in him disagreed with this plan. Perhaps it was Valjean.
Javert picked his shirt up from the floor and pulled it over his body which was sticky with sweat. He hesitated. Then he said, “Come back tomorrow.” Madeleine nodded. The Inspector bowed as he always bowed, as he would have bowed if he were correctly dressed in his usual manner, in the pressed blue-and-gold uniform that he had always worn like a second skin. Below the hem of his shirt his bare thighs were damp and his softening cock dangled against them. “Monsieur le Maire,” he said.
The door closed between them. From within Javert’s quarters Madeleine heard heavy footsteps and then the creak of a key in the keyhole.
He hurried home through the long shadows. Joy lifted up his feet and made them light. With it came fear. Everything had its price.
His fever was cooling. His thoughts turned ceaselessly on the moment of release, when he had pressed his open mouth against Javert’s in trust and longing, and Javert had bent to him. The longing had been so strong it had risen in him like a tide, crashing in his ears, confusing his senses so he could not tell reality from mad hope. He had clung to Javert and Javert had moaned against his lips.
A moan. A word.Valjean. 