Title: Thinking of You
Work ID: 5650273
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Masturbation, Phone Sex, Dick Pics, Workplace Sex, Established Relationship, Alternate Universe - Javert Survives
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Fuck. He'd forgotten that the camera app made a sound. Heat rushed to his face, even though it didn't matter; there'd been no one else in here with him.
He listened for a moment, his heart pounding in his chest, but everything was quiet. He stared at his dick on the small screen, and then, before he had time to think, added a message.
 Thinking of you.
Sent.

Work text:

The email sent, Javert turned a little to catch sight of the clock. Almost time for lunch, which would also mean time to call Valjean. His eyes came to rest on the picture that stood framed on his desk. Valjean was smiling at the camera. His eyes were wide and happy, and the sun was shining behind him. He was wearing a white suit— the picture had been taken at Cosette's birthday party.

Javert traced the lines of the suit with his eyes, licking his lips as the came to rest on where the fabric stretched over thighs he'd licked clean just this morning, after he'd made Valjean come with his hand.

Valjean in the mornings was irresistible, especially when Javert woke before the alarm went off and Valjean was still asleep. Javert had spent nearly half an hour this morning just staring at him, trying to take it all in, trying to believe how lucky he was. And then, before the alarm went off, he'd moved his hand beneath the covers to where Valjean's cock was resting warm and soft against his thigh, stroking him until Valjean had woken to pleasure and climaxed with a surprised moan.

He'd managed another few minutes of worship after that, licking at those tempting thighs even after the mess he'd made was all cleaned up, holding him spread with his hands while Valjean laughed and gave himself up to it. Javert had been so hard from nosing at those soft, delicious thighs alone that it took Valjean just a few tugs in the shower to make him come.

Javert licked his lips again, staring at the warm eyes that smiled at him from the photo. Half the day's work was done. In a moment, he'd call him, or maybe send a text. And then only a few more hours until he'd be back home. Valjean usually went for his runs before Javert returned from work so that they could have dinner together. Sometimes, when Valjean was late, Javert would catch him just when he came back home, all flushed and sweaty, wearing nothing but those ridiculous short shorts that didn't even cover his ass. He'd sink to his knees and fervently press his lips to sweat-slick thighs and lick the sweat from him until he was moaning and Valjean's legs were shaking.

“I can never decide if that's cute or creepy,” someone said from the door. When Javert turned with a glower, Rogers gave him a little smirk and then dropped another stash of forms onto his desk.

“Taking time off again next month, Javert? Holidays with the boyfriend?”

Javert didn't deign to reply and instead swiveled back around again to stare at the photo some more. Almost time to call. Fuck Rogers and his snickering. Rogers wasn't the one who'd get to watch his boyfriend run a marathon in his sexy shorts and then lick and kiss him all over until said boyfriend would come with Javert's tongue deep in his ass.

“Better get on with those surveillance reports then. Crime doesn't catch itself.”

His phone vibrated in his pocket. He kept ignoring Rogers' look until the man finally gave up and left, then pulled it out. Valjean had texted to ask when he'd be home. Javert stared at the forms, then looked around. Rogers was gone. Maybe he'd just start his break early. Maybe he'd skip lunch and call. Or he could just text. Or—

He shifted his shoulders awkwardly as he stood, then looked around once he'd stepped outside his office. No one in the corridor. He thought of Valjean again, the way he'd woken this morning: warm and pliant with sleep, Javert's face between those thighs.

God. Only a few hours until he'd be home, and he probably couldn't drag Valjean straight back into the bedroom or bend him over the kitchen table again or push him against the door and pull down his pants—but he really, really wanted to.

He looked around once more, throat dry, then hastened to the bathroom. The stalls were empty. He quickly locked the door. Then he took a deep breath as he pulled out his phone.

God, he was hard. Again.

He quickly thumbed through his pictures until he found the one he'd taken a week ago. Sunday morning, Valjean still half asleep. He was on his side, and Javert swallowed as he stared at the curve of his ass, that sweet dip above where he'd put his lips if he were home right now, and then he'd put his hands on those thighs, watch them spread for him, and lick down until—

He had to grip himself through his pants at the thought, grimacing. Jesus. He hoped Rogers hadn't seen him hasten to the bathroom.

Then, quickly, before he could think about it, he opened his pants and pushed them down together with his underwear. His cock was hard, jutting forward, and he licked his dry lips and then tried to get a good angle with the phone.

Fuck. He'd forgotten that the camera app made a sound. Heat rushed to his face, even though it didn't matter; there'd been no one else in here with him.

He listened for a moment, his heart pounding in his chest, but everything was quiet. He stared at his dick on the small screen, and then, before he had time to think, added a message.


Thinking of you.


Sent.

God. He exhaled deeply. He reached down to rub himself once, then clenched his jaw. He couldn't just jerk off at work, could he? But he definitely couldn't go back out like this.

He leaned against the wall, panting through his teeth as he stroked again tentatively. Anyway, it would be over quickly, he told himself, no one would ever know, and then he could—

His phone rang.

Oh God. For a moment, his heart skipped a beat as horror flooded him and he wondered if he'd sent the picture to the wrong person. Had he really tapped Valjean's name? What if he'd hit the one above by accident? Who was above—was it Judge Van Cleve? Fuck.

“Hey.”

Javert exhaled heavily. Valjean. Thank God.

“Are you on your lunch break?” Valjean sounded uncharacteristically nervous. He'd probably seen the picture by now.

“Yeah.” Javert swallowed again. Even that one word had come out nearly as a groan.

“Oh.” There was a long pause. Javert tried not to pant.

“I'm, umm. Thanks for... the text.”

Javert made a non-committal sound. He was still so hard it hurt. All it would take was a few strokes while thinking of where his mouth had been this morning...

There was silence on the other end of the line. He could hear Valjean breathe. He suddenly wondered how loud his own breathing was. Was Valjean listening to him?

He leaned against the wall again. He switched hands so that he held the phone with his left, then closed his other around his dick once more. A hiss escaped him as imagined Valjean at home, listening, maybe with his own hand in his pants...

No. No, Valjean wouldn't do that. But maybe he was getting hard just a little, imaging what Javert was doing while he heard his gasps through the phone.

He stroked upwards, panting as he tightened his fingers. Valjean was still silent.

Then, a soft, tentative, “Javert, are you...?”

“Thinking of you? Yeah,” he said, jerking himself again when Valjean made a little hum that managed to be both shocked and fondly amused.

“But you are... you're still at work?”

“Bathroom,” Javert forced out between clenched teeth. God, he was close. His balls ached with the dull need for release. Valjean was breathing in his ear, and he thought of doing this at home with Valjean's eyes on him, jerking himself off at night on the couch while they kissed and the TV was still on.

“Do you... Do you want me to send you one in return?” 

“You don't have to,” Javert said, hating himself for the answer because God, God, just think of what Valjean could send, what he could—

“OK. OK. Good,” Valjean said, sounding breathless and a little relieved, and Javert hated himself for wanting it when he knew how skittish Valjean was. He thought again of the picture he had. That curve of Valjean's ass. The way that ass had looked in those leather pants. The way it looked in Valjean's running shorts. The way it looked when he spread it apart with both hands to reveal the hole that he could lick for hours until Valjean was pliant and incoherent and would let him fuck him...

“Oh fuck,” he groaned when his come splashed against the wall of the stall. Valjean breathed another shocked little gasp into his ear, and Javert stared at his hand, come dripping from his knuckles, his heart racing as he listened again. But everything was still silent. There was no one here. He was all alone. Alone with Valjean still listening, and he imagined it again, Valjean on their couch, eyes wide and dark as he listened and thought of what Javert was doing.

He took a deep breath, then grabbed some of the toilet paper to wipe first his hand, then the wall.

“I'm, umm. I'm finished.”

“OK.” Valjean's voice was soft, a little hushed and breathless in his ear. Javert stared at the wall again. God. The things he did.

“I'll call you once I got lunch?”

“OK,” Valjean said again, and Javert could hear the smile in his voice. “Bye.”

Javert exhaled deeply after he had ended the call, then grimaced and pulled up his pants again, his cock still overly sensitive. Only four more hours to go until he could return home and put those thoughts into practice. God, he really hoped Rogers hadn't seen him rush off to the bathroom.

He washed his hands. He studied himself in the mirror, then frowned and combed his hands through his hair. Did he look like someone who'd just jerked off in the bathroom at work?

The phone in his pocket vibrated. When he pulled it out, there was another text from Valjean. It was—God.

He almost dropped the phone at the sudden rush of surprise and arousal. There was Valjean's dick, only half hard, but gorgeous, resting against his thigh. Javert felt his mouth water as he imagined sucking it to full hardness.

Waiting until you come home, Valjean's text said, and Javert groaned and stared at his flushed face in the mirror. How was he going to survive those hours with that waiting for him?

Maybe he'd have to come up with an excuse to leave early for once. Either that, or come back in here to jerk off again in an hour.