Title: An Angel (Through Martyrdom)
Work ID: 760380
Author: SilverBird13
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Suicide, Angst, So much angst, I really can't, Internalized Homophobia
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
"This man had once saved him from a Hell he was proud to burn in. Now, he knows, it is time to reciprocate."
Javert kills the sin to save the sinner.

Work text:

Fate, Javert decides, is the worst superior he’s ever had (deceitful, seductive, and selfish).“Javert, stay where you are!  No, come down, I mean!  Just don’t jump, oh Lord, don’t jump!”It’s been five months, and he realizes now, framed by the stars and the hungry demon below him, that he has been living on borrowed time (time stolen by Jean Valjean).And Javert knows that it is he who must pay.

For it is your sin.“Do you like the room?  I know you wish to remain in your apartment, but please, I’d like nothing more than for you to stay here, even if it’s only for a time.”Javert closes his eyes and lets out a huff of breath.  He is procrastinating in his duties, failing yet another master.“I-I don’t know what that was, Javert, please forgive me, I-I should never have-oh-”But he did, Javert thinks.  This man who is a saint (or this saint who is a man?) had been driven to temptation by a uniformed gutter rat.“Javert, Javert, you don’t know how, oh God, how many years-”But he does.  How long has this dragged on for, three decades?  And all this time Javert has clutched and chased and finally caused a man turned to God to end up a writhing mass in his bed.“Oh, please, Javert,”But he cannot comply.  This man had once saved him from a Hell he was proud to burn in.  Now, he knows, it is time to reciprocate.“Jean,” he says softly, the name he’s never allowed himself to think drowned by the river below.  How can he run from what God (God?) has intended?How can he damn this risen prodigal son?In the end, Javert does not jump, but rather allows himself to fall.