Title: Impeccable
Work ID: 8052559
Author: Isthoriel
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Schmoop, Fluff, Established Relationship, Vignette, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Post-Seine, Character Death Fix, Canon Era, Javert Lives, Domestic Fluff
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert is in something of a fluster while attempting to dress. Valjean can't help but sit back and enjoy.

Work text:

Javert is somewhat flustered. 

He stands in the middle of the room, haphazardly attempting to tug his shirt over his head. With each passing moment, he grows more and more tangled within its folds. His sounds of exasperation are muffled only by the fabric, Javert himself making no attempt to hide his displeasure. With every twist and tug the situation worsens, and the man is becoming gradually more exasperated by the second. 

Valjean calmly regards him from the armchair. His book lies open in his lap; unread. A hand casually covers his mouth in an attempt to hide his smile but he cannot hide the amusement blatantly dancing in his eyes. 

Javert feels the weight of his gaze, arms dropping to his sides in a motion of displeasure. "And what are you smirking at?" His attempt to look formidable is utterly foiled by the unquenchable mirth bubbling within him.


Valjean searches for the words, carefully choosing his approach. His eyes dance over the man. "You are impeccable, Javert, in all things. And so it is wonderful to see you for once in such helpless disarray". His smile colours his words. The choice of "helpless" had been dangerous and yet he felt he could chance it... just in this moment. 


He had been correct. Javert almost dejectedly goes back to organising his things; finally straightening his shirt and retrieving his discarded cravat.

"I am only human, you know," he grumbled, but with warmth; he is perhaps even a little pleased though he would quicker die than admit it. 

"Hhmm," Valjean agreed, eyes briefly dropping to the lines of text for a brief moment before returning to the more virile pastures of Javert's form. "With a touch of the divine within". 