Title: Superstar (Let's Start a Nuclear War)
Work ID: 927067
Author: SilverBird13
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Crack, Gay Bar AU?, Blame the Kink Meme, Those fishnets are being worn FOR A CASE, Quast!Vert on a pole will be my dying sight after writing this, Miss New Booty, See Javert work it, Work it Javert work it
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
“Fuck my life,” Javert cursed under his breath as he straightened one of his fishnet garters and cringed at the slimy feel of lipstick on his teeth."
Or, Javert wants to take you to a gay bar.

Work text:

“Fuck my life,”  Javert cursed under his breath as he straightened one of his fishnet garters and cringed at the slimy feel of lipstick on his teeth.
“On in five, everybody!” the manager cried from behind him, causing Javert to tense up as he walked to his assigned pole, ducking his head to avoid being hit by a beam.  Why on God’s Earth did he even have to wear these shoes?  He was 6’5, for Christ’s sake!
Javert soon reached his pole, and shook his head in horror.  He was actually going to do this-shake his ass in front of a crowd of drunken idiots in this seedy gay bar in the hopes of finding any information out about a damn drug ring.  He huffed as a young man in leather shorts and a half-tank with a black cat on it waved at him as he walked to his own pole, nearly falling flat on his face in his low Mary-Janes.
At least at a straight club, he could’ve just worn his tried-and-true pimp disguise.
“Ready, boys?” the manager yelled again, and Javert gritted his teeth, adjusting a fake eyelash as the curtain began to rise.
**********


30 seconds into the act, and Javert was ready to let the drug ring become a national treasure if it meant he could get out of this.
“Miss New Booty!” Leather Shorts cheered as a pounding beat began, grabbing hold of his pole and slinking down and up it again, pouting ridiculously for the hooting crowd.Miss New Booty?  Why would MISS New Booty be playing in a gay bar?  For God’s sake, what even WAS this?
Javert rolled his eyes and attempted to smile as he forced his mind to go blank.  Too many questions and not enough sanity left on Earth to explain whatever this was.Booty, booty, booty, booty, rockin' everywhere 


Booty, booty, booty, booty, rockin' everywhere 



Booty, booty, booty, booty, rockin' everywhere 


Rockin' everywhere, rockin' everywhere!
The cheering from the crowds intensified as he watched Leather Shorts receive the pleasure of a new dance partner in a man clad in a doctor’s coat and red briefs.  Leather Shorts grinned, bent forward, and began shaking his ass as Doctor’s Coat slapped it with a smirk.  Javert watched the fucking donkey show with a grimace and began to shake to the beat, one hand moving up and down the pole as he closed his eyes and attempted to picture something, anything sexy.Girl I don't need you, but you need meTake it off, let it flop, shake it freelyAnd I don't tell storie, I let 'em tell they selfAnd you ain't gotta sell sex, girl it sell itselfLike nuttin' else, yeah I'm a country boyBut that big city bottom fill me up with joyAin't life grand, live it up Betty
“C’mon, BOOTY, ALEJANDRO!” the stage manager screamed from backstage, barely audible over the crowd’s sudden excitement in Javert’s slight wiggling (or was it because the idiots on the other pole had begun to fairly fuck onstage?)
Javert’s eyes snapped open.  Damn, just when he’d had old Valjean wailing his name, too.  He cursed the name Alejandro (stolen from his pimp disguise), cursed the stage manager, and stepped forward, sticking out one hip and turning his back to the crowd.  Sighing, he bent at the knees slightly the way Leather Shorts had done, and attempted to mimic his movements.Booty, booty, booty, booty, rockin' everywhereBooty, booty, booty, booty, rockin' everywhereBooty, booty, booty, booty, rockin' everywhereRockin' everywhere, rockin' everywhere!
Javert fairly laughed as he listened to the lyrics of the song for lack of anything better to do.  The movement was fairly repetitive (ass out, pelvis in, slam backwards and forwards like a deranged bird), and REALLY, he could write better shit than this literally dancing on a goddamn pole in black fishnets and lacy boxers.BOOTY BOOTY BOOTY BOOTY ROCKIN' EVERYWHEREBOOTY BOOTY BOOTY BOOTY ROCKIN' EVERYWHEREBOOTY BOOTY BOOTY YOU KNOW NOTHING OF JAVERTNOTHING OF JAVERTNOTHING OF JAVERT
Well, at least his lyrics were more personal.Ass get to jiggling, motherfuckin' wigglingKeep that thang shakin' like she frost bitch shiveringAss be delivering all type of flashesCashes got these ho's shaking like molassesSssh *whispering* let me whisper in your earGet yourself together go and buy some new gearDo something with your hair then hit the clubShakin' ass at the fellas, goin' show some loveBut that wasn't in just a minute ago!
Javert sneered again at the song as his leg muscles began to give out and he was forced to face the crowd again.  His ass wasn’t even big, for Christ’s sake!  He was hardly a small man in stature, but damn if he wasn’t fit!
“Fuck me all night, tiger!” some idiot screamed, throwing a $10 bill at Javert, which he reached to pick up without thinking, his shaggy hair thankfully shielding his sneer from view as he prayed to the God he was sure hated him that his boxers covered enough from behind.  The action apparently incited more generosity, and soon Javert found himself fairly showered with bills, Leather Shorts and Doctor’s Coat retreating with matching frowns.
“C’mon, big boy!  We’ll give you $50 for a lap dance!”
Javert tensed, shoving the bills he’d collected into a garter and stomping to find the source of the voice before he could change his mind and go become a damn realtor. 
“Yeah, we’re over here!” the man screamed again as Javert came closer to find two young men, a dark-haired one frantically waving his hand as well as a shyer-looking brunette with a journal at his hip.
“Hey, you were great up there!  Look, we got this guy, okay?” the black-haired one said with all the drunken intensity he could muster, “and he’s totally hot for you.  You think you could give him a dance, help him loosen up?  We took him here to get him out, but he looked like Hell before you came on."
The brunette shifted to reveal a well-built white-haired man in a button-down with a blush covering his face and a sizable tent in his jeans.
Jesus fuck.