Title: Saint-Cloud Snows
Work ID: 36726727
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Anal Beads, 24/7 D/s Relationship, Snow, Horses, Kissing, Javert's Ideal Winter Vacation
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Snow fell in heavy flakes, settling on Valjean’s hair and the mane of his horse. Despite the snow that covered the path, the golden gelding moved smoothly beneath Valjean, his breath steaming in the air as he moved forward.

When Valjean turned his head, he saw that Javert was not far behind. Noiraude as well walked easily despite the snow, and after watching her for a moment, Valjean returned his attention to the path before him, satisfied that her legs held up well to the exercise.

She had recovered well in the year that had passed since they had found her collapsed in the snow before a cart, half-starved and beaten. Back then, no one who had seen her would have believed that one day, she’d be running through the snow with the energy of a yearling.

“It’s getting worse,” Javert said next to him a moment later after Noiraude had lengthened her stride.

Valjean gazed up at the sky again and nodded. It had been cold when they’d set out from Paris, but the sun had been shining. Yet not long after they’d passed the barrière de Passy, clouds had covered the sky and snow had started to fall. They’d ridden through the snowfall for two hours, confident that it would soon cease. Instead, it had kept snowing until their horses sank into a blanket of white with every step.

Still, the horses were energetic and their spirits high, and it was not far now to their destination. If it kept snowing like this, the journey back to Paris might prove difficult. Still, for now, the prospect of a stable for the horses awaited, and a warm stove and hot coffee for the two of them to wait out the snow.

“Half an hour and we’ll be there,” Valjean said with a smile.

They had passed by Saint-Cloud not long ago, and the horses, who had made this journey a few times, knew as well as they did that the stable was close.

Doré shook his head, snow scattering from his mane. He snorted as if he shared Valjean’s confidence, his ears pointing forward eagerly as he too lengthened his stride.

“The roads might be too bad to make it back tonight,” Javert said after a moment. “With her legs, I don’t want to ride her through the night. Not with ice and snow on the paths.”

“They won’t mind us staying there for the night.” Valjean said, the corners of his mouth rising. “In the worst case, we can sleep in the hay. It will be warm enough in the stable.”

An answering smile tugged at Javert’s mouth. “As if they’d let you of all people sleep in the stable.”

Valjean had purchased the small farm earlier in the year, just as Javert had demanded of him. It was a modest property—the farmhouse, a stable for the Arab stallion and his mares, and the orchards that yielded the main income of the farm.

Now, in the winter, the trees were covered beneath the snow, and there was little work left except for the chickens and the horses. 

“We won’t freeze tonight, that’s for certain,” Valjean said.

Javert laughed in response. “Not when I have you to keep me warm.”

Javert stroked Noiraude’s neck, and with an eager snort, she increased her pace. Snow rose in little clouds as she began to trot.

Before them, the path stretched towards a hill, then turned to the left. When they reined in their horses by a wooden signpost at a crossroads, they could already see the buildings of the small farm in the distance. Smoke rose from the chimney, promising warmth and company.

Although the snow was still falling heavily, the end of their journey was so close now that they slowed the horses and rose in companionable silence, enjoying the quiet of the snowy landscape.

White stretched for as far as the eye could see, turning the trees they passed into strange sculptures. By the time they entered the courtyard, Javert’s slate-gray coat had turned white, and the horses strained towards the stable, well aware that hay and oats were waiting for them.

Valjean and Javert were greeted with delight and soon found themselves sitting in front of the fire, blankets wrapped around them and steaming cups in their hands while the elderly couple that ran the farm fussed over them.

“We were worried when we saw how high the snow was piling up,” the woman said. “Surely you’ll stay tonight? I readied the bedroom as soon as I saw it was beginning to snow. That’s no weather for a journey.”

“We will stay,” Valjean said with a smile, resisting the urge to turn towards Javert.

Here, on this farm, they were merely retired gentleman Fauchelevent and his friend, and they both wanted it to remain that way.

If worst came to worst, Valjean would be able to flee Paris and live on this farm with his fake name and passport, just as he had promised Javert. Hopefully, that day would never come. Until then, he and Javert would have the pleasure of occasional visits to exercise their horses and the use of the farm’s pasture and excellent Arabian stallion.

Last summer, Noiraude had already spent a month turned out to pasture with the other mares and the red Arab, but had not taken. Perhaps that had been for the best, for the foal would have been born late in the year.

This year, they’d be able to turn her out with the other mares and the stallion in spring, and perhaps the coming year would bring them a foal that could grow up with other five or six colts and fillies that were born on the small farm every year.

Two hours later, after they had sufficiently warmed up from the journey, and while Doré and Noiraude were content with their large heaps of hay in the stable, Valjean and Javert set out once more into the falling snow.

They walked side by side, with no destination in mind, content to gaze at the snowy landscape around them. Snowflakes were still falling heavily. Everything was quiet. There was no sound but the crunch of snow beneath their feet.

Eventually they turned and made their way towards the orchard that was the old couple’s livelihood. Here, pears and apples grew in summer, which were sold in the markets of Paris. A maze of walls stood beyond the rows of old apple trees. In summer, the stones stored the warmth of the sun and thus allowed the small peach trees growing in the enclosures to yield a rich harvest of sweet peaches.

Javert cared little about the details of such things, but Valjean had listened with interest when the farmer had proudly described the long tradition which had produced peaches for Paris’s tables for many decades.

A red-bellied bird alighted on a snow-covered branch, eying them curiously as they walked past. Then it took flight again to investigate the footsteps they had left behind.

Valjean reached into his pocket where he had kept a piece of dry bread for Doré. He found a few crumbs and scattered them for the bird.

“It will be good to return in the spring,” he said quietly. “If we bring Noiraude to the Arab, we might stay a day or two, sir.”

Javert inclined his head in agreement. “Rivette will have to learn to cope without me for a day or two. It will be good for him.”

As always, the mention of Rivette sent a stab of uncertainty through Valjean. He forced himself to look at the peach tree before them and study its snow-covered form.

When he turned back to Javert, he found Javert eying him thoughtfully.

“And it will be good for you too,” Javert murmured. “Don’t you agree?”

“I can help with the orchard work.”

At that, Javert laughed. “That wasn’t what I meant.”

“I can help with the horses,” Valjean offered with a quizzical look, but Javert only shook his head again, clearly amused.

The sight was enough to set Valjean’s heart aflutter.

Javert, stern and forbidding, was a sight he was well-used to, and one that never failed to make his heart beat in wary excitement. Javert in a good mood had been a rare sight once. It was rare still, but these days Javert’s smile was a sight he knew well, and one that never failed to fill him with warmth and admiration.

Javert took a step towards him, and then another, so that Valjean had to take a step back. His back hit the trunk of a snow-covered peach tree. Javert took another step closer, the snow crunching beneath his boots, and gave Valjean a half-smile.

Then he raised a hand to his mouth and used his teeth to slowly tug off his glove.

Valjean swallowed at the sight. He couldn’t look away—and he didn’t doubt that Javert knew very well what effect he was having on him.

When he’d carelessly pushed the glove into a pocket, Javert reached out with bare fingers and touched Valjean’s mouth, stroking gently along his bottom lip before he slid two fingers into his mouth.

Valjean had to hold back a moan as he sucked on them, his eyes still on Javert while his heart was thundering in his chest.

They were all alone in the snow-covered peach plantation. With the snow so deep and the flakes still falling, no one would venture out so far in the late afternoon. They were alone and would remain so, just him and Javert in the cold air and the heavily falling snow that alighted on Javert’s beard, eye lashes and nose.

Javert’s fingers pushed against Valjean’s tongue, then teasingly slid in and out of his mouth before Javert at last pulled out and leaned in to kiss him slowly and thoroughly. Valjean moaned again, slumping against the tree as he raised an arm to wind it against Javert’s shoulders.

The air was cold, but Javert’s skin was warm against his own, Javert’s tongue scalding hot in his mouth so that Valjean shivered and tried to press close, hungry for it.

“Reach into my pocket,” Javert murmured when he pulled back, looking breathless and pleased.

Valjean was breathing heavily himself as he slid his hand into Javert’s pocket, fearful and excited. What had Javert brought? The spiky bit? Leather ties to bind him? The phallus from Valjean’s nightstand?

His stomach clenched with arousal when his fingertips slid over telltale balls connected by a string. Was Javert intending to use them on him—right here out in the open?

Valjean swallowed again when he pulled the beads out of Javert’s pocket, watching the polished, wooden balls dangle in the air.

“Something to keep you busy. In case the weather turned bad and I’d have to keep you occupied tonight.” Javert gave him a smug look.

Hesitantly; Valjean drew a finger along a bead.

“Keep it in your own pocket. I’ll make use of it when we’re back.”

All of a sudden, the snowy landscape and the crisp air lost their appeal. The beads were heavy in Valjean’s hand as heat rushed to his face. All he could think of was the weight of Javert’s limbs, the demanding touch of his hands, the hot mouth that could leave marks on his skin that would be invisible beneath his clothes the next morning.

Valjean exhaled, his breath shivering, and allowed the beads to slide into his own pocket.

Javert looked pleased with himself, the skin around his eyes creasing as he observed Valjean’s reactions. He still stood too close. Valjean was content to remain within the small enclosure of the peach plantation, surrounded by old walls that kept off the wind, Javert relaxed as Valjean so rarely saw him, with no concern but the day and the night that stretched before them. 

Another snowflake landed in Javert’s beard. Valjean watched it as it fell. Then he reached out to brush his fingertip against it before he leaned in for another kiss, hungry for the heat and the embrace of Javert’s arms, so that the heavy blanket of snow he had admired moments ago turned from picturesque sight into an unwanted obstacle that stood between them and the house.

Javert laughed softly against his lips. He buried a hand in Valjean’s hair, holding him in place as he kissed him until Valjean was trembling—not from the cold, but from the awareness of the weight of the beads in his pocket and the need to feel Javert’s fingers open him up.

“Eager?” Javert murmured against his lips when he drew back at last, then stepped away with a smile.

By the time they returned to the house, they were grateful once more for the warmth that greeted them.

Valjean, who had grown more eager with every step, was forced to show patience. Dinner had been prepared in the meantime and they spent an hour at the old couple’s table, eating and talking and drinking their wine while Valjean discussed his plans for the spring, the foal they might have out of Noiraude and the red Arab, and another promising young filly the old farmer was thinking of buying.

All the time, despite the comfortable warmth of the small farmhouse, Valjean was aware of the heat of Javert’s eyes and the way they lingered on him, quiet and patient in the knowledge that Valjean was his and always would be.

The old couple went to bed early. Valjean and Javert retired not much later, after a last check on the horses who had settled in well into the stable, with enough hay to last the night.

The room Valjean and Javert were given had once belonged to the old couple’s son, who had absconded with most of their savings over a decade ago. The room was small but clean, and the bed large enough for both of them. It was situated beneath the rafters, whereas the old couple’s bedroom was on the floor below. From the window, they had a perfect view of the snow-covered landscape spreading before them—but Valjean found himself too distracted to enjoy the picturesque sight.

All he could think of was the string of beads he’d been carrying in his pocket, the slight smile on Javert’s face and the warmth in his eyes.

Javert allowed Valjean to undress him when they retired at last, their small bedroom heated by the chimney. Javert seemed to be in no hurry, and so Valjean took his time, lingering with the damp, warm cloth where he would have liked to linger with his mouth until Javert’s skin was damp and warm and smelled of soap, and Valjean was aching for his touch.

Javert buried his hand in Valjean’s hair and gave him a gentle tug. When Valjean looked up at him, his stomach tight with need, Javert smiled again as if he knew exactly what Valjean wanted.

“Go and wash yourself,” he said. “Then bring me the beads.”

At home, Javert might have waited for him sprawled in his armchair by the fire, wearing his silken robe. As they had not planned to stay for the night, Javert had not brought it. Instead, Valjean was treated to the view of Javert exposed to his gaze, bare skin gleaming in the light of their lamp. The play of light and shadow rendered his expression mysterious, although Valjean knew that no matter what sort of play Javert was in the mood for tonight, he’d never be able to look at him with anything but possessive warmth.

It was a good sensation, and one Valjean cherished.

He felt Javert’s eyes on him as he hastily undressed and then washed himself, half expecting a command to slow down and let Javert look his fill—but Javert, it seemed, was not in the mood to linger when they both knew what Javert had in mind.

When Valjean was done, Javert nodded towards the bed with a half-smile, and Valjean, who was long past the days when he’d furiously fought against Javert’s mastery of him, found himself disobeying for the first time in a long time.

Instead of making his way over to the bed, he kneeled before Javert and brushed his lips against his thigh, kissing his way upward. Javert smelled of the unfamiliar soap, the scent already mingling with the deeper musk of his arousal. When Valjean breathed warm air against Javert’s cock, it began to stir.

Javert let him kiss his cock and nuzzle at his balls, but when Valjean tried to draw the tip of his cock into his mouth, Javert laughed and pushed him back.

“I have other plans for you today, and you know it.”Javert ran an affectionate finger along the side of Valjean’s mouth. “On the bed. Now.”

With one last yearning nuzzle against Javert’s cock, Valjean rose at last to kneel on the bed, bending forward at Javert’s command.

A moment later, he felt Javert’s touch. Javert’s hand was cupping his buttocks, kneading his backside in admiration. Then his hands ran between Valjean’s thighs and Valjean willingly allowed himself to be spread open.

He’d felt the throb of anticipation low in his stomach ever since their walk, and now that he at last felt Javert’s hands on him, he exhaled and turned his head to rest it on a pillow, closing his eyes as he abandoned himself to sensation.

Javert was content to play with him for a while, his thumbs spreading his hole open until Valjean ached for the penetration, although he held himself still, only his heavy breath betraying his need.

Finally, Javert placed a flannel beneath Valjean’s stomach, then reached out for the oil. When his fingers returned, they were slick and two of them slid inside Valjean easily, exploring him slowly while Javert’s other hand possessively kneaded the muscles of his buttocks.

Valjean couldn’t hold back a groan, his entire body shuddering when Javert twisted his fingers and massaged right there.

Javert only chuckled at his reaction and gave his buttocks a light slap.

“Hold still.”

It was easier said than done when Javert didn’t ease up, the pressure of his fingers making it impossible to remain unmoving when every touch sent lightning shooting along Valjean’s spine, making his body tense and his back arch. His balls ached, his cock already swollen so hard he could feel it slap against his stomach with each movement although Javert had only just started.

When Javert at last pulled out, Valjean felt loose and slick, his hole contracting desperately so that he flushed, although Javert only chuckled.

“Don’t worry,” Javert said. “You’ll get something else.”

A moment later, Valjean felt the pressure of the first bead. He exhaled into the pillow as his body swallowed it eagerly. Javert made an approving sound, his thumb rubbing against Valjean’s tightening hole.

Another bead followed, and then another, Valjean’s body stretching open around each before clamping down on them, pulling them deeper inside. His body felt warm and loose, his cock smearing wetness against his stomach as he gasped for breath.

Slowly, patiently, Javert fed him more of the beads until Valjean could feel himself stretching open around them, their slow motion and weight inside him making him push back against Javert, asking for more—and there was more to come.

Javert did not like half measures. He did not stop until he had lovingly pressed every last bead inside Valjean, Valjean’s body filled to the brim so that with every breath he took, he could feel the heaviness of the beads inside him. They had increased in size and number ever since Javert had first introduced them to him, and Valjean had taken them all without complaint, allowing Javert to open and fill him however he liked. 

Today as well Javert touched him with quiet pride, his fingers trailing over Valjean’s sweaty skin while Valjean panted into the pillow, stretched and full and heavy.

Then Javert took hold of the string and tugged on it. Valjean had to force back a gasp as the first bead spread him open before it popped out, the remaining beads shifting inside him so that his fingers clenched around the sheets at the sensation.

Javert laughed and tugged again, and Valjean exhaled into the pillow as the beads shifted inside him, massaging him from within as he felt himself opening around another bead.

Javert’s thumb rubbed against his hole. “Beautiful. I should have made you wear them for our walk.”

Without further warning, he tugged again, harder this time, so that a flurry of beads slipped out of Valjean who had to bite back a soft cry, his entire body shuddering at the sensation.

“That’s how I like you.” The words came out hoarse with pleasure. “Look at you...”

When Javert’s hands settled on his backside once more, Valjean arched into the touch without shame, spreading his thighs further as Javert kneaded his buttocks, then spread his slick hole open with his thumbs.

“Do you want them back inside you?” Javert asked, sliding the tip of his thumb in instead to nudge the beads that remained inside him.

“Please,” Valjean gasped, trying to push back against Javert.

With a soft laugh, Javert released him.

“You have such pretty manners when you want something,” he said, his voice thick and affectionate. “Here. Is this what you want?”

Another bead was pressed against his hole, and Valjean felt himself open up around it. It settled inside him easily, and then the next bead followed—less pressure this time so that Valjean was forced to push back against it to swallow it into his body.

Javert laughed again. “That hungry for it?”

Despite his words, he pushed another bead into him, his fingertip tracing lightly around Valjean’s hole while Valjean felt himself stretch open for the penetration.

The pressure and the slow slide of it inside him was so good it was almost unbearable. Valjean’s cock throbbed, aching for a touch, but instead Valjean tightened his grip on the sheets, moaning softly as he tried to think of the snow still falling outside, the heavy flakes melting on his face and his tongue in the afternoon.

It did not help much, but he managed to withstand until Javert leaned over him, Javert’s cock nudging his thigh.

“Ready for more?” Javert did not wait for Valjean’s answer before he positioned himself, the tip of his cock pressing against Valjean’s hole.

Most of the beads were still inside Valjean, and when Javert’s cock spread his hole open, he nudged the wooden balls inside so that Valjean moaned helplessly again. Javert hadn’t asked him if he could take both Javert and the beads inside him, he simply expected it—and Valjean wanted to obey, wanted Javert to fill him until he could no longer bear it, wanted to prove he could do anything Javert asked of him.

Feeling Javert stretch him open was always good, but this time it was different. This time, there was not just the sensation of Javert’s cock filling him, but the added stimulation of the large, wooden beads shifting inside him, stretching him further to make way for Javert’s cock until the pressure and stimulation seemed almost impossible to endure. 

Valjean closed his eyes, desperately stifling his moans into the pillow to keep from alerting their hosts. All the while, Javert kept sinking deeper into him, his cock rubbing against the beads. Valjean groaned again as he imagined how it had to feel like to be massaged both by the large, shifting wooden balls and the soft heat of his insides.

Once Javert had fully buried himself inside him, he muffled his own moans against Valjean’s shoulder. His teeth scraped Valjean’s skin as he pulled back out a little, then pushed back inside, the sensation made a hundred times more intense by the beads that shifted inside Valjean with every thrust.

Valjean’s cock was leaking incessantly, his balls tight and aching, but he didn’t dare to touch himself. His fingers were still cramped around the sheets, his desperate pants stifled by the pillows. If he let go, he knew he wouldn’t be able to keep control of himself, and what if their hosts were still awake and heard...

Javert groaned against his shoulder, his thrusts speeding up. The sensation of the beads rubbing back and forth inside him together with Javert’s cock was so intense that Valjean arched and released his hold on the sheets at last, stifling his cry by biting down on his arm instead as he shuddered and came all over the flannel.

Javert kept fucking him through his climax, the intense pressure on his prostate stretching out Valjean’s orgasm as his body trembled and tightened at every thrust. Then, finally, Javert collapsed atop him, heat filling Valjean with pulse after pulse of Javert’s own climax. Valjean moaned tiredly, blissfully through it, his need sated at last although the stimulation still hadn’t ceased.

The mere act of Javert pulling out of him was enough to make him shudder and drawn in air as the beads rubbed against each other inside him. A few of them were pulled out together with Javert, stretching him open wide while Javert’s warm release came dripping out of him together with the beads.

Javert made a pleased, tired sound against his shoulder, then sat up. His fingers ran up Valjean’s thigh, gathering the escaping come, and Valjean shivered in anticipation even before he felt Javert’s fingers against his stretched hole, pushing it back inside him.

And Javert didn’t stop there.

Slowly, one by one, the beads were pushed back into Valjean’s hole. Valjean moaned softly as he felt himself open for each of them, then tighten around them to draw each ball deeper inside.

Inside, he felt stretched and used and hot, empty without Javert to fill him. But now, with each bead that was pushed into him, he was filled up once more until the slick balls rubbed against each other inside him and over-stimulated nerves sparked, his eyes stinging as he shifted to make the sensation more bearable.

“I don’t want you dripping all over the sheets tonight.” Javert’s thumb rubbed lovingly against Valjean’s clenching hole before he fed him another bead. “What will our hosts think?”

Valjean’s cock was already stirring again at the relentless pressure, but he didn’t dare protest. It was all he could do to keep from moaning as Javert filled him up again.

When Javert was done, he gave Valjean’s backside another little swat, and Valjean groaned when instinct made him clench around the beads inside him, another electric buzz of pleasure surging through his aching body.

Javert laughed softly and stretched out next to Valjean, sweaty and sticky and looking rather pleased with himself.

It took a long moment until Valjean had enough control over his limbs to rise and fetch the damp cloth they had washed with earlier.

With a satisfied sound, Javert stretched as Valjean gently cleaned him, his eyes half-closed and a smile playing on his lips. Valjean couldn’t help but pause and look at him, trying to burn the image into his memory—Javert utterly at ease, relaxed and content. He was beautiful in his sprawl across the sheets, all firm limbs and sated abandon, soft cock resting against his thigh, eyes gleaming with open fondness when they came to rest on Valjean.

“Come back to bed before it gets cold,” Javert said.

Valjean shook himself awake, hurriedly cleaning himself and trying to ignore the way the beads inside him shifted at every movement, grinding against over-sensitive nerves.

By the time Valjean joined Javert in bed, he was already half-hard once more, his thighs trembling at every step.

With a laugh, Javert wrapped his fingers around his cock.

“Someone’s eager. Maybe if I’m in a good mood in the morning…”

“You’ll take them out in the morning, sir?” Valjean pleaded, aroused and dismayed at once by the thought of sleeping in Javert’s arms with the beads inside him all night.

“If you’re good.” Javert released Valjean’s cock to curve his hand around Valjean’s nape instead, drawing him in for a kiss.

Javert’s body was warm, his beard rasping against Valjean’s cheek. Valjean ran a hand down Javert’s chest, moaning into the kiss when Javert half rolled him over, the beads inside him shifting, a relentless reminder that he was Javert’s, inside and out.

When Javert at last drew back, he kept his fingers lightly curled in Valjean’s hair, his head resting against Valjean’s shoulder as he fell asleep.

Valjean remained awake for a while, listening to the sounds of the house and Javert’s breathing. He was blanketed by sensation: Javert’s heat and his scent and the heaviness of the beads inside him. Arousal sizzled beneath his skin like an electric current. And when he fell asleep at last, it was with yearning for the morning and the pleasure he’d give Javert.