Title: Seine, Swallow Me
Work ID: 39555738
Author: willver
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Implied/Referenced Suicide, Fix-It, Javert is Pulled from the Seine by Jean Valjean, Because the Original Ending Made No Sense, Given the Fact That Valjean is Extremely Christ-Like, Existential Crisis, Moral Dilemmas, sick-fic, Sort of? - Freeform, Angst, Mental Anguish, mental breakdowns, Potentially Innacurate(?) Depictions of PTSD, Happy Ending, Healing, Running Away Together, Probably ooc, I Just Wanted to Write Some Sad Old Men in Love, Enemies to Friends to Lovers, Enemies to Lovers, Sharing a Bed
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 6/6

Javert knew what he had to do from the moment that Jean Valjean, that wretch, that sinner, that miserable, loathsome criminal spared his life. He knew that there was no way forward for him. When he walked away, when his life was placed back into his hands by that man, he knew that he had been forsaken by god.

‘For what,’ Javert asked himself, ‘Am I without the law?’

He had devoted his life, every ounce of blood and sweat to upholding it, and Jean Valjean wrested his power from him with ease. He had acted as if he was invulnerable, breathing in Javert’s venom and anger and scattering back it into the nighttime air, like blowing the seeds off a dandelion.

And so, as the two men stood at the edge of the Seine, Jean Valjean cradling the body of Marius Pontmercy as if he were precious, begging Javert to spare the idiotic boy, the inspector felt sick at the realization that he couldn’t say no. He should have. Pontmercy was a revolutionary, a traitor to France. He was a villain.

Javert let them go. 

He watched as Jean Valjean left his reach once more, with only a promise and a couple of greenhorn gendarmes to ensure his return, off on yet another noble pursuit. He considered, briefly, chasing after them, bringing them back, clapping them in irons and sentencing the criminals to the punishment they so very much deserved for their disobedience towards the law. Instead he collapsed to the ground, pressing the barrel of his gun to his temple. 

‘I ought to end it here’, Javert told himself, face twisting with an emotion he could not name, ‘Then Valjean will get what he deserves, and I will pay for wandering astray.’

Alas, he lowered the gun with a weary sigh. He could not go. He could not idly sentence Valjean to that fate.

“‘A wolf could wear sheep’s clothing, but he’s still a wolf,’” He quoted himself, bitter and rueful.

Valjean was no wolf. Of course, he was not a sheep. 

‘No,’ Javert thought, ‘If he was to be compared to any beast, it would certainly be a fox.’ 

Clever and slippery, Valjean was a survivor who had outwitted the ruthless hound Javert at every turn. Yet, at the end of the day, the fox sought only to protect its loved ones, to guard against the incursion of brutal law and order against its wild and free nature.

Javert stared deep into swirling, malachite waters, just feet from the toes of his leather boots. In the grey light of morning, Paris seemed oddly peaceful. The crack and boom of gunfire and cannons had ceased for the moment, leaving only the chirping of birds, rush of water, and clattering of nearby carts on cobbles.

The stillness settled over Javert like the specter of Death, resting its skeletal hands on his shoulders. This day would not be such an unpleasant one to die. But first, Javert knew, he has business to take care of.

Gathering driftwood and garbage that littered the river’s side, Javert lit a small fire. The orange-yellow blaze contrasted not only in color with the whirling water, but in sound. The popping of sparks erratically punctuated the swooshing of the rapids.

Javert took out his notebook, and began to write for the last time. 

‘To whom it may concern,

I, Inspector Javert, hereby confess to having acted illegally. I allowed an anarchist, a criminal, who is known to have associated with the ABC club to escape my custody. Therefore, in my betrayal of the Kingdom of France and her gracious ruler, King Charles X, I have resorted to carrying out the appropriate sentence of my own accord. By the time this letter reaches the head of the Paris police force, I will have been executed by my own hand. This is the price that I must pay.

God save the King,
Inspector Javert’

By the time that he had finished writing, a police wagon had rolled slowly, excruciatingly, up to Javert’s spot by the river. Resigned, the inspector stood, straightening his coat, and then his hat. Two officers hauled a filthy, handcuffed Jean Valjean from the wagon.

The tall, lean man’s dark eyes blazed as he looked down at Javert. Javert could see determination, pity, and perhaps even satisfaction etched clearly on his face. He couldn’t help but feel some anger, and hatred, for an ex-convict who was so holier-than-thou.

Nevertheless, Javert called over one of the officers, and handed him his notebook. 

“That is an important memo for the prefect,” He stated, “It explains what I’ve done with the prisoner. Make sure he sees it before breakfast.”

“Sir.”

The other officer shoved Valjean roughly towards the inspector with a smirk. Javert raised his gun, pointing it directly at the center of Valjean’s chest. The officers remounted the wagon, and set off once more, knowing nothing of what was about to take place.

In all honesty, Javert hardly knew himself.

“I’m glad I had time to myself,” Javert said, “I needed to think about what you deserve.”

Valjean didn’t say a word, simply meeting his gaze.

“You’re a difficult problem,” Javert sneered, and he could almost swear that the corner of Valjean’s mouth lifted, the bastard.

“Move toward the edge,” He ordered, gesturing with the pistol.

“Why aren’t you taking me in?” Valjean asked, though he sounded as if he was already certain of the answer. He did not move a muscle.

“You are my prisoner! Do what I tell you to!” Javert barked, “You do not understand the importance of the law. I’ve given you an order! Obey it!”

Valjean’s lips pressed into a perfect line, and for a moment Javert thought he would refuse to move once more. Instead, Valjean stepped towards the edge of the Seine, cuffs jangling as he moved. Javert pressed his gun to the side of Valjean’s jaw, reveling, for a brief moment, in the feeling of having triumphed over his enemy.

The satisfaction was short-lived.

“Why didn’t you kill me?” Javert demanded, feeling more naked and vulnerable than he ever had in his life. His grip on the gun faltered as he flexed his fingers nervously.

Jean Valjean’s pitying gaze sliced to his core, “I don’t have the right to kill you.”

“But-“ Javert argued, indignation cresting in his rib cage, “You hate me.”

“I don’t hate you,” Valjean said calmly, “I don’t feel anything.”

‘Liar,’ Javert thought. If there’s one thing that he knew about this man, it was that he was incapable of not feeling anything. He sighed wearily.

“You don’t want to go back to the quarries do you?” He asked. Valjean seemed suspicious, but he slowly shook his head. No.

“Then for once we agree,” Javert said, “I’m going to spare you from a life in prison, Jean Valjean.” 

He trailed the tip of his gun to the underside of Jean Valjean’s chin, , “It’s a pity the rules don’t allow me to be merciful.”

Valjean, ever defiant, turned to look him in the eyes. 

‘Kill me and I win all the same,’ His gaze declared.

“I’ve tried to live my life without breaking a single rule,” Javert confessed, and before he could change his mind, let his logic take over and stop him from committing this foolish act, he released Valjean from his chains.

The fugitive’s face showed nothing but abject shock. Javert shoved him roughly away from the edge, sending Valjean tumbling to the ground.

“You’re free,” Javert spat, encircling his wrists in those entrapping bracelets with a final clink of metal. 

He turned his back to the Seine. Valjean stared up at him, not breathing, not moving. Javert took a step back, his heels hanging over the edge. Then, with one last exhale, he let gravity take him.

He fell into ice and darkness, teal all around him. The water roared in his ears, roared like a thousand lions. His mind told him to swim, to hold his breath, but Javert stayed limp, and he opened his lungs to the deadly waters.

His chest spasmed painfully, but for every aborted cough water filled his lungs, dragging him deeper and deeper. And yet, though he sank, he became lighter and lighter. Javert’s vision swam, and spotted, and finally, mercifully, faded to black.

Pitch black.

The ultimate peace.

But then-

Then his eyes were opening, like flowers to the blinding gray skies of Paris, and the Seine poured from of his mouth and nose like an ugly fountain. 

And there was Jean Valjean, his tormentor, his savior, calling his name and pressing a warm hand to Javert’s cold, wet chest.

Javert screamed, raw and grating as he continued to hack and rasp.

“Why?!” He pounded his fist into Valjean’s chest, and the man fell back on his ass once again, “Damn you!”

Weighed to the ground by his wet flesh and wetter clothes, Javert flailed until he found purchase in the cobbles of the riverside. Ignoring the stinging in his fingertips and the shivering of his frame, he dragged himself bodily towards the river’s edge.

He didn’t make it far before Valjean snatched him up, lifting him from the ground, away from his way out. Javert tried in vain to escape, but his limbs quickly failed him. He clutched the soggy lapels of Valjean’s coat with what seemed like all of the strength left in his body. He could still hear the river’s roar, drowning out all other sound, calling out to him even as he was carried far, far away, through blocks and blocks of tenements, shops, and homes.

Gradually the roaring faded, and he began to hear bits and pieces, Jean Valjean speaking in a soft and serious tone. 

“Hold on to life, Javert,” Valjean’s voice sounded so close, full of pleading and despair, “It is not your time yet.”

‘It should have been,’ Javert thought, muscles aching as another coughing spell hit him square in the throat. 

It hurt more than anything Javert had felt since his childhood in prison. There he was sick and on the verge of death at least once each year, coughing until he could taste blood, shivering and shaking while his mother “entertained” the guards, vomiting so that he couldn’t keep in the measly scraps of bread and water that he was allotted. 

And now?

Here he was again, small and weak.

He gasped for breath, hacking and wheezing. Javert couldn’t get enough air. He felt Jean Valjean come to a stop, and a broad, rough hand pressed against his throat. Javert flinched, sure that the convict looked to strangle him in his vulnerable state. 

It would be a fitting end, he supposed.

Instead Valjean rubbed soothingly at Javert’s throat, and spoke to him in that same soft tone, “Breathe, Inspector. Breathe for me.”

Javert screwed his eyes shut and focused on the rhythm of Valjean’s thumb, tracing back and forth across his neck. He inhaled through his nose, and though his throat spasmed in a fledgling cough, he kept his mouth shut, swallowing as if to quench it. Slowly and surely, the spasms became less and less frequent, and he could feel his body relax as it took in air once more.

“There we go,” Valjean murmured. Javert opened his eyes to see that face, the one that had haunted his every waking moment since he had discovered ‘Monsieur Madeleine’s’ true identity at Montreuil-sur-Mer. But instead of the hatred, the murderous intent that he had pictured on that face for all those many years, Javert only saw caring. It turned his stomach most unpleasantly.

“You should have let me die,” Javert said faintly. Valjean scoffed.

“And what kind of man would that make me? The Lord did not turn His back on me when I needed Him most. Why should I do such a thing to you?”

“I deserve it. I broke the law,” Javert coughed, and tried to push himself to his feet. His legs gave out, and he found himself supported in Valjean’s arms once again.

“You deserve no such fate Javert,” Valjean stated, hefting the inspector as if if he weighed no more than a scarecrow, “No person does.”

“No?” Javert asked, “And what if they cannot be redeemed, Monsieur Valjean?”

“You can be,” Valjean said, and his voice showed plainly that he believed it.

Javert disagreed, but he was far too tired to argue. He fell silent, and though he was loathe to get any closer to Jean Valjean than he already was, he found that it was easy for his head to fall against the man’s shoulder. Briefly, he met Valjean’s eyes, but he quickly looked away, mortified at how unfazed he seemed.

In the jouncing motions of the convict’s walk and the wake of his dance with death, Javert found himself slipping, deeper and deeper. This time, uninterrupted, he drowned in the black, still waters of unconsciousness. Behind his eyelids flickered images of the roiling river, foaming and filthy and calling his name.

When Javert woke, he was greeted with sunny yellow, light and airy all around him, dispersing the teal that flowed through his unconscious mind. There was panic as he realized that he did not know where he was; something brushed his fingers, and he jolted to attention. 

He didn’t know how to feel when he realized that it was Valjean’s hand, resting on top of his own.

The wizened man sat in a chair at his bedside, still dressed in his clothes that he had been wearing when he plunged into the river after Javert. 

The stench of polluted water permeated the yellow room. Javert himself smelled of it, though he realized with a start that he was wearing a night shirt, clean, striped white and pale green, and two sizes too big.

“You look better,” Valjean said as Javert sat up, drawing his hand away.

“You changed my clothes?” Javert asked, shifting uncomfortably. It was not so much his modesty that he worried about. 

Jean Valjean had to have seen the scars, raised and white, that traced lengthwise along the insides of his wrists.

Reflexively, Javert curled his arms and hands inwards towards himself. He dared not look at Valjean. The shame was too great to bear.

How odd, Javert thought, that he should feel shame for these markings before a man who had seen him attempt to drown himself just hours before.

Then again, the attempts were two entirely separate things. The second, well, it had been honorable. A necessary punishment for his disobedience of the law.

The first, however, had been nothing of the sort.

-

He remembered vividly how the blood had spurted from his veins, painting the cloth on his straw bed in violent scarlet.

Javert had been 13 years old, spindly and greasy. Hunger constantly gnawed at his ribs. They were holed up in some brothel, Javert squeezed into the closet while his mother prowled the streets in her rouge and feathers.

When they had arrived, the man who ran the place looked him up and down like a piece of meet, then grinned horribly, with rotting stained teeth.

“Our customers would pay a handsome price for you lad.”

His mother simply tittered, and remarked, “He takes after his mother don’t he?”

“That he does,” The foul man replied. As Javert and his mother passed, he snatched Javert’s arm in a vice-like grip, and bared his ugly teeth as he whispered, “I’ll be up for a chat later.”

Javert nearly threw up on the spot. He felt that he had always known, distantly, that he was sentenced to a horrifying fate, but he had never wanted to be anything like his mother. Now, before he could do anything of his own accord, Javert’s life would be stolen from him.

He considered, as his mother hiked up her skirt and adjusted her breasts, that perhaps he could run away. Javert could take to the streets of Paris, like the urchins and wretches he had seen so often before, beg for scraps and pickpocket the rich.

Yet that was no life either. He would be jailed again, or die of some disease, or be murdered at random. He could be found by another man like this, taken against his will.

Disgust and fear coiled tight in the pit of his stomach.

“Do what the nice man says,” His mother hissed as she rushed out the door, “We need the money.”

There was only one way to escape this fate. Javert had seen many a desperate soul take their own life in prison, slitting their wrists, hanging themselves, or even convincing a sympathetic guard to slip them poison. He could do this, he had to, in order to escape this abominable existence.

And so, being too small to reach any beams and string himself up, and having no guards to slip him poison, he opted for the first method.

Javert shattered the mirror on the cheap vanity with a brick he had loosed from the wall, and picked up a dagger-like shard. He winced as it sliced into his hands. Biting his lip to distract from the pain, he moved to the closet, on the floor of which lay what was meant to be his bed. Javert laid back, staring up at the cracked, water-damaged ceiling.

Suddenly, heavy footsteps sounded, coming up the stairs. The man.

Javert lined the sharp tip of the shard up with his wrist, and quickly sliced it open. Blood immediately spurted forward, but he swallowed his nausea and pushed through the fear, making quick work of the other. He felt his life begin to drain in quick fashion, as quick footfalls approached his door.

He heard it swing open with a crack, and then a booming voice shouted, “No one here Inspector!”

The police, Javert thought. With blood still coating everything, and searing pain in his forearms, he crawled painstakingly out of the closet.

The inspector in question looked as if he might faint as Javert stared up at him, his blood pooling on the floor. 

He heard, as he slipped into unconsciousness, shouted orders and racing footsteps, coming back towards him once again.

When he had woken in the hospital, the inspector, who was named Martin Gauthier, had been at his bedside. He looked grim, but relief broke over his face as Javert blinked awake.

“Thank the Lord,” The inspector said, “For he is surely merciful.”

Javert didn’t know what to say to that. He simply stared at the man, who smiled at him.

“It was by divine grace that I found you in time to spare your life, young man,” He declared, reaching to place a hand on Javert’s shoulder, “Had we not conducted that raid on that night at that time, your life would have been lost.”

Javert’s eyes widened. A raid. 

“Are you going to arrest me?” He demanded fearfully, “Please sir, don’t send me back to jail. It was my mother who took me there-“

“I am not going to arrest you,” The inspector cut him off, shaking his head, “You have committed no wrong besides the sin of attempting to take your own life-“

He leaned closer and smiled, whispering softly, “-which I believe the Lord has already forgiven you for.”

This inspector, when Javert had been well enough to leave the hospital, had taken him to an orphanage, strict and Catholic. There he had learned the fear of God, what was right and what was wrong, and through visits with the inspector, had discovered his calling.

Javert decided that he would become just like the inspector. It was a sign from God that he had been rescued by Gauthier, he believed.

He had signed on to the police force as soon as he was old enough, worked his way up from being a prison guard. His work as a guard was where he had met Valjean for the first time. He had become an inspector, and then, well…

Javert had taken a steep pitch, down, downwards, deeper into the void than he had ever fallen before. He had lost of everything that used to matter to him.

And so here he was, in some strange room, face to face with the man he had hunted for all these years, who had saved Javert when he had wanted saving the least.

Jean Valjean was a conundrum. He was a thief, a man who had served 19 years for stealing bread. Yet through his struggle he had been transformed; today he was a father, a pious man, an uplifter of the downtrodden and damned.

Javert owed him his life again, and he knew that Valjean wouldn’t let him go.

-

“Javert?” Valjean called. The inspector flinched violently as the ex-convict’s hand brushed his, startling him from his thoughts.

“Don’t touch me,” Javert snarled, hands gripping more tightly around his wrists.

“My apologies, I did not mean to make you uncomfortable,” Valjean said, holding up his hands in surrender.

“You should have left me in my clothes,” Javert began to shift towards the far edge of the bed, swinging his legs over the side. Valjean moved to help him, but he fixed the man with a piercing glare, and he froze in his tracks.

“I could not,” Valjean frowned, “Why should I have allowed you to catch your death of cold, after having rescued you once before?”

“Why does it matter to you whether I live or die?” Javert’s rage boiled to the surface. He turned to face Valjean, “You could have been free, and I could have payed the price I owed, and now we are both trapped!”

Valjean hardly looked stunned, and his eyes betrayed no hurt. For some reason that made Javert even angrier.

“It was not your right to force me to stay alive!”

That made the convict’s dark eyes flash, and Javert prepared himself to brawl, to yell more, to do anything.

“It was not your right to force me to watch you die, Javert.”

All of the fight left the inspector then, as he saw shadowy grief in the lines of Valjean’s weathered face. Javert couldn’t bear to look. He sat back on the bed, staring down at his bare feet on the gnarled wooden floor.

“I thought you would be happy to see me go,” Javert confessed.

Valjean sat beside him, and Javert could feel his gaze on the side of his face. 

“Look at me,” Valjean said. It sounded like he was pleading with him. He looked.

“You are valuable to me, Javert.”

Javert would have been lying if he said that his chest didn’t twist violently in that moment. Valjean was staring at Javert like he could see all of him laid out to bare, and he still saw good in every inch of his being. A wall of longing crashed into him, leaving him breathless and unsure.

He hated it.

“I don’t understand,” Javert murmured, smoothing a hand across the green-striped night shirt.

“You are smart, you are principled, and your intuition is almost a sixth sense. I have never met a more formidable man,” Valjean sighed, closing his eyes, “I may not agree with all that you have done, and I may not have always held you in warm regards, but I have always, always respected you.”

Javert laughed, a choked sound, and coughed wetly, “I wish that I could say the same for you.”

Valjean grimaced, but it was the face of old pain, long settled, like a broken arm that never really healed the right way.

“I am a fool,” Javert said ruefully.

“Perhaps,” Valjean replied, “But the same could be said for most everyone who has walked this Earth at one point or another.”

Javert suddenly felt very tired. He put his head in his hands.

“Valjean?”

“Yes, Javert?”

“Help me. Please.”

It felt like the world had slowed to a stop. The days were long, trickling by, punctuated by very little. Valjean, eternally patient and kind, hovered by his side, waiting on his every need.

There was not much he could do at first. For a week, maybe more, Javert stayed in bed, fading in and out of consciousness. He ate very infrequently, and talked even less.

Towards the end of that week, Valjean began to take him out to the garden, first for a half hour, then an hour, then two more. They would sit in silence, in the diluted sunshine of Paris’s cloudy summer, and listen to the distant sounds of the world going by. There were clattering carts, distant shouts and chatter, and most of all the blowing of the wind. 

But on the deep grey days, when it was all too much for him, all that Javert could hear was the Seine. On those days, Javert would step out the door, take one look at the sky, and shake his head. Valjean knew then to take him back inside.

Another week passed, then another. He slept less, and sat in the garden more, but he was numb. There was no passion, no conviction in his existence. Valjean began to read to him every night, poetry and epic tales. 

It was painstaking, listening to him, as he struggled with most of the words. Javert couldn’t say whether the poetry was more for his sake, or Valjean’s. Thankfully, the man did improve rather quickly.

It was a warm evening, and Javert was lying on the bed in the sunny room, staring at the ceiling. Jean Valjean sat in a chair beside him, in the same position he had been when Javert had first awakened in this house. 

“The sad soul is like… Er…
The sweet sky of night
When the slum- slumb- slumbering star,
In the rosy vault? Row-zee?
Declines to silence,” Valjean read haltingly, brow furrowed with concentration.

Javert didn’t even think before he said, “Is this meant to heal my own sad soul? It seems quite counterproductive, I’m afraid.”

Valjean raised his eyebrows, snorting softly, “I confess that I did not believe you to be listening, dear inspector.”

“What else have I to listen to, Monsieur le Maire?” Javert asked dryly.

“I will not continue if you do not wish me to,” Valjean half-smiled, resting his chin against his knuckles.

“I did not say that I wanted you to stop,” Javert scoffed. Valjean laughed.

“No, I suppose you did not.”

Valjean resumed reading that night, and kept reading night after night. After that first exchange Javert would interject every so often, correcting his pronunciation. He was snappish by nature, but Valjean took his comments in stride. It took the venom right out of him.

A month and a half passed. Valjean had not left his side for more than an hour at a time. Their food was delivered, and their laundry taken and returned by a strange man in the dead of night. 

Valjean would shrug on his jacket, taking up a lantern, and stand at the gate of their walled garden. One night Javert peered out of a window after him. The man appeared in short order. He was familiar, perhaps a known associate of Valjean, but he did not recognize him. 

All that Javert knew was that he felt an unbearable, hot-white bolt of anger as the men embraced, long and lovingly. He moved away from the window, bitter, seething, and unwilling to confront the meaning of his feelings.

When Valjean returned, Javert greeted him at the door.

“I would like to take a walk tomorrow, Valjean,” He informed him. Valjean beamed in a way that made Javert sick to his stomach.

“Then we shall take one,” Valjean replied, laying his coat over the back of a nearby chair. Javert scowled.

“That man need not come again,” Javert pressed. Valjean squinted at him.

“He does not know you are here, you need not worry,” The ex-convict reassured him. Rage welled up in Javert suddenly.

“Why should he not know that I am here?” Javert hissed, “I am not some great secret, Monsieur Valjean.”

“Of course not,” Valjean frowned, “I just wanted to give you some privacy Javert.”

Javert collapsed into an arm chair next to the fireplace, pinching the bridge of his nose. Valjean knelt at his feet, reaching for Javert’s unoccupied hand. Javert flinched, but he did not pull away.

“Tell me what is troubling you, dear inspector,” Valjean murmured, tracing Javert’s knuckles with the rough pad of his thumb.

“Don’t you see that you-“ He choked, “You are the only thing standing between me and total isolation?” 

Valjean’s eyes widened, “Javert-“

“I have no one,” Javert bit out, “I have had no one all of these years. Only you, you and the endless pursuit of you. You are all that I have left, Valjean, and I cannot lose you too.”

Silence rang through the room, and Javert found himself unable to breathe. The rushing of the Seine built in his ears, drowning out the creaking of the house and gentle breeze whistling by. It whooshed, roared, pounded against the inside of his skull.

But Jean Valjean cupped the side of his head with one large palm, and it all stopped.

“Javert,” Valjean said, ever so gentle, “I am not going anywhere.”

Javert nodded weakly, and let the weight of his head sag more fully against Valjean’s hand.

“You seem so tired, my friend,” Valjean whispered, “Let’s get you to bed.”

The way Javert clung to Valjean as he lifted him up. He was a sailor, clinging to a piece of debris in the face of a tempest. Valjean’s breath wafted across his scalp, light sea breeze.

He lowered Javert to the bed as if he were delicate, as if he were a glass ornament. Before he could straighten up, Javert grabbed his sleeve, bunching the fabric in his bony hand. 

Valjean’s dark eyes were too knowing for the inspector’s liking.

“Shall I stay?” He asked, but Javert could see that he already had the answer.

Javert nodded for good measure.

Valjean kicked off his shoes and coat. He made to sit in that chair, that damnable chair.

“No,” Javert said firmly, then looked askance in regret.

“No?” Valjean questioned. He was frozen, halfway between sitting and standing. 

Javert shook his head, “Forgive me, I-“

“Are you asking me to come to bed with you, inspector?” Valjean seemed amused.

“Forget it,” Javert said sourly. Valjean laughed.

“Move over,” He instructed, striding to the edge of the bed.

Javert rolled over, turning his back on Valjean. He felt the bed dip under the other man’s weight, almost drawing him to Valjean. There was a brief tug on the sheets under him, and he lifted his body to allow Valjean to cover them both.

Valjean blew out the candle that sat on the bedside table, casting the room into cave-like darkness. 

Javert fell asleep to the sound of Valjean’s steady breathing, slow and rhythmic.

They never took their walk.

-

When he woke the next morning, Valjean was still beside him, fast asleep. In the golden glow of the room Valjean’s hair had orange tones, like fire caught in the edges of his strands. He looked gone to the world, as if he might never wake. The only sign of life was the rise and fall of his chest.

It dawned on Javert then, just how much Valjean had exerted himself, all for Javert’s sake. He didn’t think the man had eaten, slept, or had time to himself since Javert’s… accident. A spear of guilt pierced clean through him.

Javert decided that, given Valjean’s hard work, he ought to repay him in some measure. 

He took it upon himself to make breakfast.

Javert was not a poor cook by any means, but rather an unpracticed one. All of his life he had either been served meals in institutions, or served meals in taverns. He had hardly been home enough to keep more than a loaf of bread and some particularly sturdy cheese. Thus, he opted for something that wouldn’t be easy to mess up: eggs and bacon.

He even put the kettle on to brew them some tea. Jean Valjean had kept the kitchen well stocked.

By the time that he had cooked and plated everything, Valjean had woken with a start.

“Javert!” His alarmed voice echoed through the house, followed by the rapid thumping of socked feet on wooden floors.

Valjean looked wild as he rounded the corner into the kitchen, hair in disarray. The relief on his face as he saw Javert, standing barefooted by the table, setting down a plate, was like a cool breeze on the hottest day of August. Javert smiled wryly.

“I wouldn’t do that to you,” He said, looking directly at Valjean.

Valjean’s expression slid into something like skepticism, but he looked like he wanted to believe it.

“I was scared, Javert,” He confessed, looking horribly tired.

“I know,” Javert replied, lowering his eyes, “I’m sorry. I didn’t want to wake you.”

“You shouldn’t worry about me-“

“Of course I should!” Javert scowled, “Have you seen yourself?”

“Javert I assure you that I-“

“Monsieur Valjean, you look as if you are about to drop dead,” Javert said sternly, “I don’t know what’s going through your mind but you’re- well- a damned fool if you think neglecting yourself helps me in any way!”

Valjean seemed stunned into silence. He just stared at Javert like he didn’t know how to proceed. Javert smiled a little smugly.

“Now sit, you great oaf,” He instructed. Valjean shook his head exasperatedly, but sat at the small kitchen table, his long legs bumping against the underside. Javert savored that small taste of victory.

They sat and ate breakfast in silence. Valjean seemed wholly focused on the food, eating like a man starving, though Javert supposed that he always ate in such a manner. It rather reminded him of a stray who had been taken in after a lifetime of starving on the street…

Always eating as if this dinner would be his last.

He was pleased to see that Valjean enjoyed what he had made, at the very least.

Javert, on the other hand, ate very slowly and deliberately. He had learned long ago that eating too quickly did nothing but make him hungry again in no time. Slow and steady. That had always been Javert’s way of being.

And yet…

Valjean was far sturdier than Javert. Even with his passion, his impulsiveness, he stood tall and strong, never bending or breaking. Javert had thrown all he had and him, and Valjean had withstood it all.

Javert would be lying, to say that Jean Valjean did not make him feel safer than anything else in the world. He would not quit him for anything. 

Valjean looked up at Javert between mouthfuls, a strange warmth in his eyes.

Javert felt seasick.

Valjean finished his food long before Javert did, but he sat and drank his tea, regarding Javert over the rim of his cup. 

“It’s hard to eat when you’re watching me, Monsieur Valjean,” Javert grumbled, stabbing violently at a stray piece of egg.

“Apologies,” Valjean said, not seeming apologetic in the slightest as he continued to stare, “It is just that I have never seen you this way before.”

“And what way would that be?” Javert raised an eyebrow haughtily.

“In domesticity,” Valjean smiled as if this amused him greatly, “A hunter’s hound turned family pet.”

“I assure you, sir, that my bite is still worse than my bark,” Javert sniffed, glowering.

“I do not doubt it Javert,” Valjean told him, “Nevertheless, you must admit that all of this is rather odd.”

“It is,” Javert sighed, giving up on his food, “To think that I thought of you as an arch-rival…”

“You were doing your job, Javert.”

“We both know that it went further than that, Valjean.”

The tall man couldn’t seem to find it in himself to protest.

“I cannot say why it is that you consumed my mind so,” Javert admitted, “But I couldn’t let you go, even when I knew I should.”

“You did let me go,” Valjean pointed out.

Javert frowned, pushing his hair back from his face, “And you came back.”

“I did.”

“Why?”

“I suppose,” Valjean thought for a second, “I was the one who couldn’t let you go.”

Javert nodded, trying to seem normal as his heart thumped out of his chest and his skin burned. Luckily Valjean seemed to be done with the conversation, clearing his throat and stacking the dirty dishes. Javert watched his back as he rolled up his sleeves, setting to work on the washing up.

The inspector’s entire body ached.

-

He had changed out of a nightshirt into real clothes for once. They were too big for him, but he found that he didn’t mind. All the same, he rolled up the sleeves and the legs of the pants, neglecting socks and shoes to go barefoot in the garden. 

The sunny morning had given way to clouded noon, air scented in rain. Grey clouds rolled overhead, and Javert tilted his head to the sky as he laid on the lawn, dark hair splaying like inky tentacles in the verdant grass. As drops began to splatter against his cheeks his arms, every part of his body, Javert enjoyed the cool sensation.

Thunder rumbled distantly, and Javert could feel it roll through the marrow of his bones. The rain thickened until it was pouring, the ground all around him turning muddy and slick. It felt like he was sinking into the Earth, becoming one with the ground.

He closed his eyes to the rain.

When he opened them again Valjean was there, looking down at him, with that same worry-lined face. He brushed Javert’s soaked hair from his face, as if that helped anything at all. Valjean’s hair hung down, dripping onto Javert’s cheeks.

“What are you doing out here?” Valjean asked, and Javert reached for his hand where it rested against his cheek.

“Jean?” He murmured.

“Yes?” The tall man replied, stroking his hair aside once again, leaving burning paths across Javert’s skin.

“Let’s leave,” Javert said firmly.

Valjean half-smiled.

“Where shall we go?”

“Anywhere but here,” Javert begged, voice gravelly, “Please Jean, take me away from here.”

“Your wish is my command, my dear friend,” Valjean told him. He kissed the back of Javert’s hand like he was some sort of king, a royal, worthy worthy of worship and praise.

Javert felt weak beneath him.

“Now,” Valjean said, looking him in the eyes, “Will you come inside?”

Javert just nodded, letting Valjean help him to his feet. He leaned heavily against the taller man, who wrapped a strong arm around his shoulders. Inside, Valjean sat him on the tiles in front of the fire, disappearing briefly to bring a nightshirt and a woolen blanket.

“You’d best get out of those wet clothes, Javert,” Valjean ordered, “I can’t let you catch your death of cold again.”

Javert began to unbutton his shirt immediately, reflexively, flushing when he realized that he had begun to undress in front of Valjean.

“Sorry,” He choked out, holding his shirt closed like a scandalized maiden.

Valjean cleared his throat, somewhat red in the face himself, “I’ll give you some time to yourself.”

Javert shed his wet clothes, weighing down on him like a second skin, and quickly pulled on the nightshirt, shivering at the now-cold droplets rolling across his flesh. He shook himself like a wet dog. Then, hugging his arms to his body, he went in search of Valjean.

He found the man still drenched, trying not to drip water on the bed as he made it up for Javert. The inspector scoffed. Valjean turned at the sound.

“You are forever a martyr, Monsieur Valjean,” He grumbled, marching over to the wardrobe. He tossed Valjean a nightshirt, then motioned with his head in the direction of the main room.

“Change,” He instructed, “I don’t want the bed to get wet.”

Valjean hovered for a second, seeming unsure that he should leave Javert.

“Go on.”

With that Valjean shook his head, exasperated, and walked off.

Javert clambered onto the bed, pulling the sheets over himself. It was only the afternoon, and yet Javert felt that he could sleep through the night until tomorrow. His exhaustion set upon him mercilessly.

Still, he kept his eyes open, watching the doorway. He could hear Valjean moving through the other areas of those house, heavy footsteps and creaking wood. It was good to know that someone was there with him.

It was good to know that he wasn’t alone for once.

When Valjean came through the door, he smiled.

“Waiting for me, Monsieur Javert?” He asked.

“No,” Javert scoffed, rolling over to face away from him. Valjean laughed warmly.

“Come now,” Valjean said, “There is no need to be so cold, my friend.”

“I am perfectly warm, thank you,” The inspector replied acerbically.

Valjean snorted, settling back. They sat in silence for a minute. Two. Then five. Javert’s eyelids remained awfully heavy, and yet his consciousness lingered on, a spirit with unfinished business.

He sighed, then rolled over exasperatedly.

“Valjean?” He said.

“Yes Javert?” Came the reply.

“Goodnight.”

“Ah,” Valjean murmured, “Goodnight.”

The next four days were a flurry of movement and activity. They packed bags and tidied the house. Valjean ran errands. Javert was loathe to be without him, but it was necessary in order to make their arrangements.

‘Just a few more days’, Javert told himself.

They shared a bed each night, barely a foot apart at all times. Every time their limbs brushed, Javert’s entire body was drenched in rosy heat. He made a concerted effort to ignore it- after all, it was summer, he told himself, and it was natural that he should become overheated sharing a bed with another person.

It was a whirlwind compared to the last few months of Javert’s life. This newness both exhausted and excited him. He felt that he was finally ready to emerge from his catatonic state…

Not to mention that he thoroughly enjoyed ordering Valjean around.

The night of their departure, Javert was nervous. Though he knew that he would have to step outside the walls eventually, the idea still scared him to no end. Nevertheless, he steeled himself.

Valjean had gone out of his way to find Javert clothes that would fit him better (“Trust me Javert, you’ll need it”), taking his measurements when Javert refused to go with him to get them. He had come back with clothes so perfectly suited to Javert that he was somewhat astounded to find that Valjean had not hunted down his address to get them.

“How did you know what to get?” Javert raised an eyebrow incredulously.

“Oh it was easy,” Valjean said, mischief creeping into his voice in a way that Javert had never quite heard before, “I simply asked myself what a funeral director might wear.”

Javert tried not to smile, half-glowering as he smacked Valjean on the arm with a sock.

“You are a rogue, Monsieur,” Javert replied, and Valjean laughed.

Now, as Javert shrugged on the coat he had received from Valjean, he admired his reflection in the wardrobe mirror. It fit him perfectly, better, admittedly, than most of the clothes he had ever bought for himself. Valjean walked in, and leaning against the doorframe, admired Javert in his new coat.

“It suits you better than I could have imagined,” Valjean looked extremely pleased with his choice. The ex-convict himself wore a deep brown coat, and pants and boots well-suited for travel. Javert restrained himself from squirming under his appraisal.

“You have an eye for fashion,” Javert supplied, and hefted his rucksack onto his shoulders. He hadn’t much to take, and neither did Valjean.

“Thank you.”

The two men regarded each other for a second, the atmosphere heavy with things left unsaid. Javert felt that he should say something, do something, but he was at a loss as to what. Valjean cleared his throat, turning away.

“Shall we depart, Javert?”

Javert nodded, “Yes.”

He put out the gas lamp in the small, sunny bedroom for the last time, and followed Valjean out of the house, into the garden.

Valjean’s luggage was waiting by the gate, where Javert had watched him come and go so many times. It felt strange, surreal even, to approach it. He had not even looked at the streets of Paris that since his accident, though they laid just beyond the walled garden.

The taller man swung the gate open, taking his things in hand, and stepped out. Behind him Javert could see the dark street, lit sparsely by lamps, and a carriage rattling by, drawn by two great chestnut steeds. The outside world was close, so close, and yet his boots stayed rooted to the ground, anchoring him to the past.

“Javert,” Valjean murmured, stepping back through the gate, “Take my hand.”

He extended said hand, large and gloved, and held his dark eyes steady with Javert’s. There was a brief moment of panic, of uncertainty that flitted through his mind, but he placed his hand in Valjean’s, and suddenly the ground beneath his feet was cobbles, hard and uneven against his soles. Javert let out a breath that he didn’t know he had been holding, and though fear wrapped its icy grip around his core, he felt free.

Valjean suddenly pulled him into an embrace, arm wrapping around the small of Javert’s back.

“I swear, darling inspector, that no harm will come to you in my care,” He said, and threaded his other hand through the hair at the nape of Javert’s neck.

Javert’s knees went weak.

Valjean pulled away just as suddenly. His hand rested forgetfully at the base of the other man’s skull as he said, “Now, we have to go before we’re seen.”

He hefted his luggage and moved away.

“We are both dead men, after all.”

Javert felt a strange sense of freedom at that.

The two men stole through the streets of Paris, Javert following Valjean closely. They wound through the streets, taking back alleys whenever possible. When they finally reached the wall, large and intimidating, Valjean stopped.

“Can you climb?” He asked.

“Climb the wall?!” Javert questioned, aghast.

“Yes,” Valjean confirmed, “If you can’t, I can carry you on my back.”

Javert spluttered, “I am perfectly capable of making the climb on my own.”

“Very well,” Valjean said, a little uncertain, “Be careful.”

Valjean began to climb, and Javert followed after him. The stony wall was dry, but slightly slippery with moss, and Javert clung to it as hard as he possibly could. He could tell that his fingers would be raw and aching afterwards. 

The taller man reached the top first, hauling his weight onto the very top of the wall. Javert was almost at the top when his hand slipped. Valjean grabbed him by the back of his coat before he could plummet to the street below, hauling Javert up with inhuman strength. 

“That was too close,” Valjean said faintly. Javert just nodded, hand pressed to his chest, just over his racing heart. He breathed deeply, attempting to slow his heart rate with some difficulty. 

He became aware that Jean’s arms were around him once more, anchoring him to the top of the wall. Javert felt tempted to drop his head onto Valjean’s shoulder. Instead he sat back, putting his hands on the wall to steady himself. Valjean took that as a signal to let go.

“Good thing you were here to rescue me once again,” Javert remarked.

“Are you alright?”

Javert nodded, “Let’s continue.”

“Is there anything breakable in your bag?” Valjean asked.

“No, just clothes.”

“Give it here.”

Valjean took his own bag, as well as Javert’s, and threw them to the ground. Then he nodded at Javert, and began to climb down the outside of the wall. Javert waited and watched as Valjean reached the wall’s halfway point, and subsequently dropped to the ground.

He followed suit, feeling rather like some sort of ape. When he hit the ground, he managed to stay on his feet, but swayed slightly. Valjean grabbed his arm to steady him.

“We have about a mile to walk to the carriage,” He told Javert, “Just stay close to me. I know the timing of the patrols and the best way to avoid being seen.”

Valjean cut a quick pace, marching across the field like a man on a mission. Javert had always been a brisk walker, but this was far more movement than he had been accustomed to in the past months. After Javert had stumbled one too many times, Valjean linked their arms, hauling the former inspector with him.

In a stand of trees, black against the summer night’s sky, there sat a carriage. A man sat in the driver’s License seat, hat pulled down over his eyes. He appeared to be asleep.

“Monsieur Lafitte,” Valjean called, and the man jolted awake. In the light of the moon, Javert could see that it was the man who had brought them supplies at the cottage.

“Hello, my brother,” The elderly man replied, taking off his hat in greeting. Javert furrowed his brow, glancing at Valjean. As far as he knew, the man had no family besides that odd girl.

Just who was this man to him?

Valjean reached up to shake his hand, “Thank you. I don’t know how I may repay you for your generosity these past months.”

“There is no need, Monsieur Valjean,” The man declared, waving his hand dismissively, “You saved my life. I would do most anything for you, so long as I am able.”

Valjean smiled, “I appreciate your devotion Monsieur Lafitte, but this will be the last favor I ask of you.”

“Then I shall carry it out to the best of my ability,” Lafitte stated. He nodded at Javert, “Good to see you again, inspector.”

“Yes,” Javert said, though he hadn’t the slightest idea as to who the man was, “You as well.”

Valjean opened the carriage door, holding it for Javert, who muttered a thank you, and slid gratefully into the seat. The other man moved after him, then with a few knocks on the roof of the carriage, they set into motion. Javert sighed, screwing his eyes shut and resting the back of his hand across his brow.

“You should sleep, Javert,” Came Valjean’s voice. Javert cracked an eye open to look at him, “It’s going to be a while before we reach our destination.”

“Where do I know Monsieur Lafitte from?” Javert demanded. Valjean smiled slightly, not seeming the least bit surprised at his offhand question.

“You don’t remember?” He questioned.

“I wouldn’t be asking if I did, Monsieur Valjean,” Javert said impatiently. Valjean shook his head fondly.

“The cart,” Valjean told him, “He was crushed underneath. I lifted it to save him.”

Memories came rushing back to Javert of the man’s cries and groans of pain, the astonishment as “Monsieur Madeleine” had lifted the cart off of him, the way the mayor had been so preoccupied with the man’s injuries that he hadn’t given Javert a second glance. He remembered the moment of recognition. As an investigator, he was ashamed that he hadn’t remembered. His memory was one of the most important things to him.

Javert had been too focused on Valjean to remember. This man was wholly his undoing.

“I was rather preoccupied with you at that moment,” He explained lamely, pointedly not looking at Valjean.

“I see,” Valjean said, his sly smile evident in his tone. Javert crossed his arms like a pouty child.

“I’m going to sleep,” He announced, closing his eyes and slumping against the back of the seat.

“I think I shall do the same,” Valjean replied.

Sleeping in carriages was never comfortable, but by some miracle Javert fell into a feverish sleep, drifting in and out. He caught brief moments of his surroundings as the countryside passed by, trees, shining streams in the light of dawn, rolling fields. His jaw and neck ached distantly, as did his legs, but it was hardly enough to fully wake him.

However, when they hit a massive rut, Javert was jolted awake most unpleasantly. He blinked the sleep from his eyes, vision blurring, then clarifying. His eyelids were still heavy, and his entire body was stiff, but he felt that there was no way that he could go back to sleep.

He became aware, as he regained brain function, of a pressure against his left side. He and Valjean had come to lean against each other in their sleep, and Valjean, who had woken before him, was simply staring out the window, not at all phased by Javert’s weight against him. Hot, prickly embarrassment coiled around Javert’s neck.

He moved away, stretching his limbs in an attempt to hide his persistent mortification. It seemed that no matter what Javert did, his soul was pulled to Valjean, and his body always followed. To make matters worse, Valjean put up no resistance whatsoever.

“Ah, you’re awake,” Valjean smiled, “I hope you rested well.”

“As well as one can in a carriage,” Javert muttered, brushing imaginary lint off of his sleeve.

“We still have quite a way to go before we reach Nice,” The man stated, “I’ve instructed Monsieur Lafitte to take us to Lyon, and we’ll take our respite there.”

“I have heard that Lyon is quite beautiful,” Javert remarked.

“Yes, I’ve heard that as well,” Valjean assented, nodding thoughtfully, “They have many renaissance era buildings that are quite beautiful architecturally.”

“I should like to take a walk when we arrive, so long as it’s not an inconvenience.”

Javert imagined the relief of stretching his legs.

“It is no inconvenience,” Valjean assured him, “We will have an entire afternoon ahead of us to explore, since we can’t be more than two hours away.”

“Perfect.”

They passed the rest of the ride in comfortable silence. Javert watched as the scene outside went from wilderness, to farmland, to city. Lyon was gorgeous in the light of August noon. 

The carriage rolled to a stop at what appeared to be an apartment building. Lots of people in spotless, beautiful clothing passed by in the street. Javert suddenly felt sorely out of place. Even so, the need to stand was far too great.

Valjean clicked open the door, and stepped out, arching his back like a cat as he stretched his arms to the sky. He reached back to offer his hand to Javert, who accepted it, stepping down from the carriage, then quickly ripped it away as he realized that there were people all around. Valjean frowned, but Javert moved away before he could say anything.

Lafitte, sliding from the driver’s seat, briefly tied the reins to a nearby post, then grabbed their luggage from inside. A woman, dressed in finery, came through the front door, a handsome man escorting her. Javert felt even more uncomfortable. Just how expensive was this place?

“Follow me, Monsieurs,” Lafitte said, walking straight for the front entrance. He didn’t seem to notice the appalled looks of the wealthy passers by, in his tattered coat and filthy boots. Javert wanted to shrink into nothingness.

He marched straight up to the front kiosk, where a round, ruddy man sat, reading a book. When he spotted Lafitte, he let out a boisterous laugh. 

“Monsieur Lafitte!” He rounded the desk, and clapped the old man on the shoulder, “Good of you to come by, my friend.”

“Monsieur Durand,” Lafitte greeted the man in return.

“And this must be the Monsieur Madeleine that you have told me about in our correspondence,” Durand said, turning to Valjean with an appraising look. He seemed satisfied in whatever he found, because he turned next to Javert.

“May I ask your name?”

“Ja- cques. Jacques DuPont,” Javert told him, rather awkwardly. Durand seemed unconvinced.

“He is my manservant,” Valjean stepped in, “He is of a rather nervous disposition, but I could not have found a more faithful and skilled person for the position.”

Javert nodded, trying to not look like he wanted to murder Valjean too much. He would get around to that later. 

“Ah,” Durand said, “Well then… What can I do for you gentlemen?”

“We’re seeking lodgings for the night,” Valjean explained.

“All three of you?” Durand questioned.

“Yes.”

“Well I think I’ve got just what you need,” The innkeep said, and took three keys from their hooks behind his desk, sliding them across.

Valjean and Durand settled the payment with a thick wad of cash produced from somewhere within Valjean’s overcoat. 

“You two are on the first floor,” Durand said to Valjean and Javert, “The numbers are engraved on the keys. Monsieur Lafitte, if you would follow me…”

That left Javert and Valjean, standing side by side in the lobby.

“A servant?” Javert questioned, raising his eyebrows.

“Would you rather I try to argue that you are my wife?” Valjean chuckled.

Javert could practically hear the woosh as his entire body went up in one pink wave of embarrassment. He snatched the key off the desk, and marched toward the corridor. Valjean grabbed him by the back of his coat, halting his movement with ease.

“Javert,” He said, voice too close to the shorter man’s ear for his comfort, “I did not mean to upset you.”

“I’m not upset,” Javert told him, not sounding one bit like he meant it, “Why should I be upset?”

“You are upset,” Valjean murmured, in a way that filled Javert’s gut with butterflies, “Please look at me Javert.”

Javert turned to meet Valjean’s worried face, the one he had become so familiar with recently. A little zap of excitement went through him as their eyes met. Javert hated himself for it.

“My god,” Valjean gasped, “You look feverish.”

He pressed the side of his hand to Javert’s cheek, and though he saw it coming, Javert still flinched under his touch.

“I’m fine,” He said, brushing Valjean away, “I overheat easily.”

Javert moved away down the hall, looking at his key to distract himself. He had room 110. It sat at the very end of the hallway, on the left hand side. He turned back to look at Valjean, who hadn’t moved an inch, and watched him with a strange expression. 

“What room are you?” Javert asked.

“104. You?”

“110.”

Javert went to open his door.

“Javert?” Valjean called. Javert sighed.

“Yes?” 

“Do you still want to walk?”

He thought for a second.

“Would it be alright if I rested for a bit first?” He said to Valjean.

“Of course,” Valjean replied, “Come find me when you’re ready. I’ll be in my room.” 

“Very well,” Javert unlocked his door and slid into the room, shutting it behind him with a sigh of relief. 

His shoes were cast carelessly aside, and he let his case fall to the ground, stumbling to the bed. Javert dropped onto it face first. The sheets smelled faintly of dust and roses. It was pleasant, but strange. They smelled nothing of the cottage. 

They smelled nothing of Valjean.

Javert closed his eyes. He wanted desperately to rest, for sleep to come. But the minutes ticked by, on and on, and the darkness behind his eyelids did not grow into unconsciousness.

Disgruntled, he turned over onto his back, staring at the ceiling. It was white, with a swirling pattern, not unlike a meringue. The longer he looked, the more unable he was to focus on just one spiral. He shut his eyes against the visual assault.

Still, Morpheus did not come to steal him away. Javert sat up, pressing into his sockets with the heels of his hands. He got to his feet and staggered to the door, stepping out into the hallway.

Without really realizing it, he found himself standing in front of Valjean’s door. He sighed in frustration. How had he become so reliant on this man that he had once hated so? Despite his injured pride, he rapped on the door.

It swung open to reveal Valjean. A smile broke across his face, dawn on the dark horizon. Javert moved past him, sinking onto the bed in relief.

He heard the door close, and Valjean came around the other side of the bed. As he laid beside Javert, the bed creaked. Valjean shifted around beside him, every soft sound of the sheets making Javert all too aware of how close he was. 

Then the taller man wrapped his arms around the former inspector, drawing him in to his warm body. Javert’s heart jumped in what was either excitement or alarm. Perhaps both. Tingling heat pricked deep in Javert’s gut. 

Overwhelming longing wrapped tight around his chest. All that he could do was squeeze his eyes shut and try to breathe. 

It was pathetic.

He cursed his treacherous soul.

“Sweet dreams, Javert,” Valjean whispered, his breath tickling the back of Javert’s neck. He shivered miserably, but tried valiantly to pass it off as him shifting around. He would do anything to spare himself the embarrassment of Valjean noticing his body’s involuntary reactions.

“Thank you, Monsieur Valjean,” He sniffed. Javert wondered if perhaps it would have been easier to sleep in his own room after all.

When Javert awoke, the room was bathed in the blues of night. He felt heavy, still socked in slumber. There was the numb feeling of something against his collarbone. Bleary eyes found a tangle of brown-red tucked beneath his chin. The wispy hairs tickled his Adam’s apple as he swallowed.

Valjean’s nose and mouth were pressed to the middle of his chest, spreading a patch of warmth through his shirt. Javert’s heart palpitated painfully, and as he flexed his stiff fingers, he realized that they were threaded in Valjean’s mahogany locks. This position, this moment, the way they were suspended in time together; Javert realized that he was in love.

He ripped away from Valjean as if he’d been burned. The world spun with rushing blood in his skull, tilting feverishly as he jolted to his feet and attempted to run. Javert felt that he might collapse, but his legs carried him forward without fail. Bile rose in his throat. As he fled the room, door slamming behind him, he heard Valjean groggily call his name.

The rush of the water slammed against his brain, blocking out the sounds of Lyon at night. The muddy darkness weighed him down. He couldn’t breathe. He felt as if he were hardly moving at all.

Yet somehow, in mere moments, he stood on a bridge, cold, dirty stone underneath his feet. He sagged against the railing, dark hair hanging down past his face. There was no color in these waters, black as the blackest parts of his memory. He held his breath, unable to shake that horrible, familiar feeling that he was sinking.

How disgusting am I? Javert thought bitterly, How could I let this happen?

This attraction he felt towards Valjean was wrong- wrong in so many ways. Not only was it against god, against the law, but it was against Valjean and his generous spirit as well. Jean Valjean, that man who seemed to embody a higher good, could only be tarnished by Javert’s presence.

Javert had always known that there was a darkness within him. He had tried to disguise it in his faith in the law; he had rejected his past and his parents. Yet, despite his best efforts, he had been unable to deny his true nature.

He was an interloper, some base devil, yearning for just a taste of ambrosia, of a greater love, all at the cost of the immortal souls of any good-hearted fool who took pity on him.

Here he was again, faced with the world-ending realization that there was no place for him.

Javert barely registered as his knees connected with the cold, rough ground. His fingernails dragged across stone, picking up grit and grime. 

He wanted to throw himself into the water again. Selfishly, he wanted to walk away, to slide back into that warm bed, to have Valjean take him in a lover’s embrace.

His stomach pitched, topsy-turvy, imagination inundated with rotating images of la mort, petite et grande. He felt sickened and elated, thoughts howling to a fever pitch, screaming in his skull. Javert was unseeing, unhearing of all else.

He did not notice as Valjean came to his side. He could not feel it as Valjean pulled him to his chest, as he lifted him away from the river. He could not hear as Valjean called his name, as he asked him what he could do to help.

It was only when Valjean’s lips brushed the shell of his ear, in the incomprehensible murmur of some sweet nothing, that Javert felt awareness return to him. He realized that he had been panting. His fingers were painfully raw at the ends and gripping tightly at the collar of his shirt, as if he has been attempting to rip it off in his frenzy.

Sickened and humiliated, he looked to Valjean, whose face was mere inches from his own. That stricken look of his had returned, and Javert thought that he might just be driving the man to an early grave. 

He found that the satisfaction that sentiment may once have brought him was null and void.

“Can you hear me, Javert?” 

“Why do you keep chasing?” Javert asked, voice almost imperceptible even to his own ears.

“What?”

“You keep chasing me!” He must have been shouting, “Why?!”

“Javert-“

“Tell me,” He seethed, grabbing Valjean’s face and tugging it close to his own, “There must be some reason!”

He opened his mouth to deliver further rage, to demand more-

“I don’t know.”

Valjean’s exhaustion seeped from every pore. He seemed resigned, yet more unsure than Javert had ever seemed him.

“I don’t know,” He repeated, “Why I started. Perhaps out of moral obligation, perhaps out of revenge, perhaps out of sentimentality, I truly cannot be sure…”

Javert’s hands shook where they rested on Valjean’s cheeks. The man seemed to be visibly chasing threads, weaving his thoughts into one cohesive spool. 

“But now I find that I cannot stomach a world without you by my side.”

Javert’s breath gusts out of his lungs rapturously. Valjean’s face is drawn, as if he has said too much, and awaits the killing blow for his transgressions.

“You are a fool,” He said, with nothing but love rolling off his tongue, and Valjean’s expression dissolved into hope.

“It is as you say,” Valjean replied. 

His eyes twinkled as he finally, finally kissed Javert with more tenderness than the lonely man had ever been afforded. 

Javert returned it in kind.

Just like that, in that moment, stolen away from the moon and her prying eyes by the velvet cloak of night, their fates were woven together as never before.

And at last the world that they had lived in so long, of fear, of agony, of misery, died out with not another word.

Cassis-sur-Mer was a quiet town, with a pace reminiscent of a trickle of condensation down the side of a pitcher of lemonade on the hottest day of August. 

Nobody really knew how long the men had been there, or where they were from, or who they had been before. They were a conversational staple for the townspeople’s idle gossip, and rumors ranged from the absurd to astoundingly accurate, but Monsieurs Jean Madeleine and Antonin Gauthier heeded not any idle speculation. 

The two old bachelors lived in an apartment overlooking a little courtyard where nasturtiums and lilies of the valley grew beneath a grand lilac bush. 

Monsieur Madeleine was a favorite with the old women and young children of the town. He was a gentle and saintly man who always did his utmost to lend a hand to anyone- whether they were friend or stranger. He was strong and capable, often called upon to help free a cart from a rut, or act as a pallbearer in sadder times.

Monsieur Gauthier was less favored, though he did not seem to mind this at all. Perhaps the knowledge that Monsieur Madeleine favored him above all others was more than enough. What he lacked in sweetness of disposition and countenance he made up for in his baked goods and gardening. He was shrewd and well-educated, and somehow, from what everyone could tell, the perfect companion for Monsieur Madeleine.

In the warmer times, the bachelors would walk to the seaside, and stroll side by side along the rocky beaches. Sometimes Monsieur Gauthier would stand in the surf, looking out far away, as if he could see something far out to sea. Before too long though, Monsieur Madeleine would rest his hand on the other man’s shoulder, and he would turn his back to the Mediterranean, allowing himself to be lead away.

In the winter months the men kept mostly to their apartment, reading books by their hearth. On holidays, Monsieur Gauthier would gift his neighbors madeleines, which he would always emphasize were his favorite recipe. When asked by a curious young girl why that was, his normally dour expression would lift a little, and he would reply, “Madeleines have gotten me through many a difficult time.”

Monsieur Gauthier had his share of bad days. He was haunted, it seemed, by some unknown tragedy or tragedies, and would withdraw from the world, becoming cold and harsh. Yet Monsieur Madeleine, with his joviality, would rest in that dark place with him. Their life and their love was not perfect, but it was wholly theirs.

Nobody really knew how long the men had been there, or where they were from, or who they had been before. They were a conversational staple for the townspeople’s idle gossip, and rumors ranged from the absurd to astoundingly accurate, but Monsieurs Madeleine and Gauthier heeded not any speculation or daydreaming.

They were, as a schoolteacher remarked to the butcher upon seeing the two pass by on their way to the beach one summer’s morn, “Living in a reality entirely of their own.”

The butcher agreed wholeheartedly, and said in turn, as he noticed Monsieur Gauthier’s brilliant smile at the brush of his shoulder against Monsieur Madeleine’s, “But they have found a happiness that many of us can never hope to know.”

And so it was that Monsieurs Madeleine and Gauthier lived peaceful and joyous lives in that town by the sea, inseparable, even as they would go calmly to their graves, hand in hand, decades down the line. Out of sorrow and hatred and past lives long since laid to rest, they had indeed, as the butcher remarked, found a happiness that many of us can never hope to know.