Title: Sharkvert and Whalejean
Work ID: 41307216
Author: Nettleheart
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Animals, Dolphins, Sharks, Whales, no beta we die like old men, I cannot figure out the formatting sorry, Crack Treated Seriously, valjean loves javert, Javert loves Valjean, Blood and Injury, Blood, Mild Blood
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 6/6

If there were any signs indicating that Javert's evening would be unusual, he certainly didn't notice them. Yet, unbeknownst to him, the events of the near future would change his life in a wholly unexpected way.

At dusk, Javert decided to take his fill from the closest source of fish. Regrettably, this meant that he wouldn't be the only predator around. He usually left popular hunting grounds for the larger sharks - as was their right - and hunted alone. He found that the most productive way of feeding was choosing a larger prey or deciding on a considerable amount of fish. Both of these were part of his old, trustworthy hunting routine, which operated with meticulously planned and efficient attacks. Over the years, he perfected his technique, which got him such nutritious food that it made daily hunting unnecessary.

He was swimming beneath a school of fish for a while now, having snuck underneath them, and shot upwards time and time again for a mouthful. 

He was feeling proud of himself, finding such a good hunting ground.

He was just in the middle of deciding if he should stop for the day, when suddenly, something hit him.

Hard.

In the face.

The impact made him spin several times before he finally stopped moving. His sight blurred and blinked in and out of focus, making him see the ocean like it was in a storm.

A moment passed until Javert was able to look around to determine the source of the attack. Before anything, he pulled his lips further back to show his impressive, razor-sharp teeth, hoping to make his attacker think twice before their second attempt. 

He searched around with his eyes, but they were nowhere to be found.

He only swam forward one or two strokes when the deep blue of the ocean turned to white. Javert thought his head got injured because the white color refused to clear up. He became even more certain in this belief when suddenly a deep noise spoke to him.

Either from the attack or the sound, but a couple of seconds had to pass until he became oriented again. This was the point when the voice reorganized into words and the white color into an actual body. A  very large body.

“I'm so terribly sorry,” said the body.

Javert quickly backed up before circling around to look at his attacker from a safer distance. It was a whale. A humpback whale to be precise, and his skin was glinting with an unusual, off-white color. 

Several emotions tried to take over the lead in Javert’s head, but the one that had finally won was anger.

“How  dare you!” he howled.

The whale slowly turned to him and started swimming in his direction, his deep brown eyes set on Javert. The driver’s seat in Javert's mind was now politely offered to fear.

He moved away briskly, lips still pulled back in what he hoped was a terrifying display.

“Don’t come any closer! I’m warning you!” 

With a startled look on his face, the whale stopped moving.

“Sorry, I just wanted to apologize,” he said. “I really didn’t want to hit you.”

Now in a safe distance, Javert felt his anger swiftly returning.

“Well, you  did ! What if I’m injured? How am I going to hunt? If I can’t hunt, I will starve and die!”

The expression on the whale’s face turned from surprise to concern. He started moving towards the shark again, but Javert roared in warning.

“I said don’t come closer!”

“I just want to check if you are injured!”

“I’m not injured!”

“You said-”

“I’m not going to be injured by some whale!” exclaimed Javert, indignant.

It seemed like he rendered the whale completely speechless, which was just fine for Javert. Honoring the phrase ‘The best defense is a good offense’, he decided to showcase some amount of intimidation.

“I’m going to eat you for this.” He made sure to show off his sharp, serrated teeth for good measure, expecting his opponent's terror. It was an exemplary gesture of domination if he said so himself.

So, the burst of laughter from the whale was as unexpected as it was infuriating. The whale shook his head and smiled.

“What are you laughing at?” If it was possible, hot water would have come out of Javert’s nostrils.

“I'm sorry, I meant no disrespect,” explained his attacker. “It is only that I have faced danger much greater than you," before Javert could protest, the whale continued, and with his next sentence he unknowingly set course for both of their future: ”and you cannot possibly eat me.”

It was Javert’s turn to be speechless.

The whale must have sensed something was off, but he still moved closer while simultaneously trying to hide that fact.

“Wh- can’t eat? Can’t eat you?” Javert repeated, aghast. “What do you mean I can’t eat you?” He narrowed his eyes. ”And stop swimming closer!” 

“I'm way too large for you to hunt. Also, I'm much stronger than you.”

Javert felt like he left a warm, agreeable current for a much colder part of the ocean.

“Oh, we’ll see about that!” He bellowed. “I’m going to hunt you and eat you. One day, you will wake up with only half of you left! I’ll leave your head because I want you to see whose hunting skills you’ve dismissed so carelessly! Mark my words!”

The whale stared at him, the corners of his mouth twitching upwards. He let out a short laugh. “And how exactly would I wake up to see half of me gone? I rather think that I would notice someone taking a bite out of me!"

“I meant it as a figure of speech!" Javert rolled his eyes. "What’s your name anyway?” he asked, exasperated.

“I'm called Valjean.” came the answer.

“And I am Javert!” The shark declared proudly. 

"It is a pleasure to meet you - well, perhaps not in these circumstances." - Valjean blinked at him guiltily, then sighed. 

Javert noticed he had a wide, unassuming face, which did not fool the shark. He was determined to be on guard when it comes to this specimen. 

“Well, as far as I can see, you weren’t seriously harmed. Again, I apologize for the fright. It wasn't my intention. If you will excuse me, I need to return to my daughter.” Valjean turned to leave. “Goodbye!” 

Daughter? Javert tried to wrap his head around the fact that this whale existed outside of their brief encounter. He just snapped back to reality when he saw Valjean moving away.

“Do not forget my name!” He shouted after him. “I am Javert! Do not forget me!”

Valjean only shook his head, astonished, before finally taking his leave and swimming for the depths of the ocean.

Javert prepared to leave the story at that, but as Valjean was swimming away, he noticed several, mostly faded scars on his white skin, some thinner, others wider, but all seemingly deep. The shark frowned. It seems the whale did not lie when he said he faced much greater danger than Javert - or, rather, danger on the same level as Javert! He shook his head and decided it didn’t matter. What he promised is what he was going to do. As soon as he meets the whale again, he will hunt Valjean and eat him. Until then, he thought, feeling his stomach growling, he needed to settle for some more fish.

This chapter contains their second encounter. Also, dolphins.

OF COURSE I’LL PUT ANGST IN A FLUFFY SEA CREATURE AU WHO DO YOU TAKE ME FOR??Also, idiot dolphin lovers time


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Valjean, to be quite honest, completely forgot about the shark he met the other day. He was now on his way to visit his adopted daughter, Cosette, seeing that she did not live with him anymore.

He let out a sigh. Ever since she got married to a young dolphin named Marius, he saw less and less of her. Which was only natural, as the two prepared to have children, but it left Valjean feeling awfully lonely at times. The dolphin couple was the only company he had, having lost his family a long time ago. He also had to be separated from acquaintances when he had to stay at  that  horrible place. The loss of connection to his daughter - or what he perceived as that - made him gloomy and downcast. It was harder to get himself to visit Cosette, harder to take large gulps of water for food, and harder to go back to the surface to take in a breath. He still did all of this though, because if he looked thinner or more lethargic than usual, it always caught Cosette’s sharp eyes.

He arrived at the area which the dolphin couple frequented. When she noticed him, Cosette’s face lit up with a delighted smile.

“Papa! You’re back!” 

Valjean smiled warmly at her while they touched pectoral fins as a greeting. 

“Do you want to come and hunt with us?”

Valjean was about to answer when he noticed his daughter’s fiancé reluctantly swimming closer. The whale didn’t know what he did to upset Marius. He was certain that the dolphin disliked him, and worst of all, disapproved of his relationship with Cosette.

Marius, as always, allowed for only the most shallow fin brush which he could get away with, and turned to Cosette, smiling at her sweetly.

“My love, don’t you remember that today we planned to swim and hunt together with my friends? I’m afraid your father would scare them away... It would be best if he joined us another time, would it not?”

Valjean felt his chest tighten in reaction to his words.

Cosette frowned.

“Marius, darling, I don’t see why he shouldn't come. He is bigger than us, sure, but that’s hardly upsetting after one gets to know his sweet nature. Right, Papa?” Cosette looked back at Valjean. The whale felt the knot in his chest loosen a bit.

However, her husband was undeterred.

“I really don’t think it’s a good idea, Cosette.”

“But Marius-”

“It’s alright,” interrupted Valjean. “I remembered I need to go to the surface to take a breath and I would not want to delay you. I will swim with you another time.” He felt horrible saying the words, but it had to be done. He will not stand in the way of his daughter’s happiness.

“But Papa-”

“My dear, let him go,” said Marius. “We wouldn’t want to leave him without air, right?”

Cosette let out a little laugh. “You’re right about that!”

With one last fin touch, Valjean said goodbye to the dolphin couple and true to his word, swam up to the surface. 

Many times a day, he thought of Cosette, and most of the time it was a reminiscence of their time together. However tragically their acquaintance began, it wasn’t long after they met that a strong bond started forming between them.  After a few months, their relationship started to resemble that of an actual parent and child, even if she was not from his blood. When she matured, she naturally became more independent and he was proud to see her grow. It was not until she met and fell in love with Marius that a sort of distance appeared between them. Marius’ particular dislike of him only worsened the situation. Valjean let out a sigh and swung his tail with more force than usual to arrive faster to the surface. 

That was when he felt his tail hit something. Startled, he turned around and a few feet away he noticed a shark swimming in disoriented circles. From the wave patterns in the water, Valjean soon realized that he accidentally hit him with his tail.

‘Two times in such a short while!’ he thought, surprised. ‘What is up with sharks nowadays?’

Only the first syllable of an apology left his mouth when he noticed the shark advancing on him with great speed. He dodged at the last minute, startled, but not unprepared.

“You!” he heard the shark say, as he made his turn for a second rush. “How dare you!”

This was when he finally recognized that this was actually the same shark he hit with his tail a couple of days ago.

He was a tiger shark, with piercing ice blue eyes and strange stripe patterns on both sides of his face. He also looked like he had something irritating stuck between his teeth. Permanently.

Although the reality of this was doubtful, since Valjean could take a nice long look at the shark’s rows of teeth in their full glory. He was pulling his face into an angry grimace, showing that no, there wasn’t any offending object stuck in his mouth.

“I apologize-” before Valjean could get out the full sentence, he needed to dodge again to avoid being hit.

“No matter how many times you say sorry, I’ll still eat you.” The shark turned and tried to rush at him again, missing only by little. “You didn’t have any chance to survive to begin with, but now you’ve only made sure that you’ll be eaten by me even faster!” he barked in a feisty manner, while preparing to rush again.

“Would you stop for a minute?” Valjean asked, desperately trying to convince the shark before one of them got hurt. Well, in the shark’s case, more than already. He frowned, trying to remember. “I seem to have forgotten your name.”

Interestingly, that’s what made the tiger shark pause in his movement. Well, he was still swimming around the whale in circles, but at least he did not seem like attacking anymore, he just glared. “I’m Javert! I told you not to forget my name!” he cried, indignant.

Valjean sighed. “Well, Javert, I'm truly sorry for hitting you... Again. It wasn't intentional. I haven’t noticed you.”

“You must think me mad to believe that! Now prepare to see the last of the ocean before I bite all your fins off!”

Valjean flinched, then sent a disapproving glance to Javert. “Look, I didn't mean to harm you. I apologized and I would like that to be the end of it. I will be more careful with my tail, but promise me you will be more careful about approaching larger animals. We simply cannot see behind our backs and we do not notice if someone is swimming close to our tail.”

Javert narrowed his eyes.

“Hah! Nice little speech you’ve got there! As if that would deter me from seeing justice done! Now say goodbye to the ocean!” 

Valjean dodged Javert in the last minute, and, as it seemed like he would argue in vain, he merely tried to resume his journey up to the surface.

“What are you doing?!” exclaimed Javert. 

“I am getting some air.”

Confusion took over Javert’s face. “Do you not have oxygen already?”

Valjean returned Javert’s glance who, for the moment, was simply swimming next to him.

“Whales do not breathe through their gills like sharks. We need to go to the surface to get air.”

“What? That's nonsense!” Valjean saw Javert looking at the side of his neck, and saw his eyes widen, when he didn’t find gills. “Whales are weird.” Javert declared.

Valjean looked away in annoyance. “Well, it is like how I said. Now, if you’ ll excuse me...” Valjean swam a couple of strokes upwards and broke the surface.

When he got back down underwater, the shark was nowhere to be seen.

Touching fins as a greeting is actually true in real life!!! How cute is that??

I've decided to make JVJ a white colour humpback whale because he needs to be bigger than Javert but not that much bigger… and humpbacks are cute.For Javert, I decided on tiger shark (this one purely bc it’s thinner than the great white and because of the “tiger smile” from the brick :D) Dolphin for Cosette and Marius is just fitting imo. 

Also, I've learned so much about sharks, whales and dolphins as I've written this, and my conclusion is: Dolphins can be bastards, whales are sweethearts and sharks are sea puppies. So, personalitywise, everything checks out :D

How do two dolphins react to the fact that their whale family member keeps the company of a SHARK?

I'm posting this on Friday instead of Saturday as I won't be available on the weekend. Enjoy! :)

Cosette has been busy these days, but that didn’t distract her from keeping an eye on her father. She noticed how he has been more quiet, more reserved than usual.

Valjean was precious to Cosette’s heart. He was her savior and her father. Cosette knew how melancholic the whale could become and she did everything possible to include him in her daily activities and keep contact with him.

He had been distant lately, and whenever he excused himself, giving Cosette a small smile, she always knew that something bothered him. If she had the time to spare, she kept an eye on him from a distance to make sure he ate and got to the surface to breathe.

Their days could be deemed ordinary, and Cosette preferred it that way. Both of them were over perturbing times, and she was glad that her life, which used to be full of danger and uncertainty, now could be described as stable and safe. Her days with Marius have become a simple routine which she appreciated more than anything.

However, one day, something peculiar happened, or more precisely, started happening.

Cosette usually checked on her father while Marius was elsewhere as she was certain her husband would protest if he knew. He argued that what Cosette did was a breach of privacy, and therefore, even if it was done for the sake of a loved one, was still wrong. All the same, Cosette couldn’t help the worry growing in her chest when she saw Valjean looking thinner or more downcast.

One day she was checking on Valjean, and found him feeding. It was satisfying to see him taking care of himself even in this small way. She was ready to turn around and find Marius when suddenly a tiger shark appeared close to her father and rushed at him with bared teeth.

Cosette’s first instinct was to warn the whale, but it seemed like he didn’t need any warning. He skillfully dodged the charge and turned towards the attacker.

“Good morning, Javert.” He said placidly, while avoiding another attack.

“You should rather say farewell!” exclaimed the shark, apparently named Javert.

“When will you cease doing this?” asked Valjean, vexed.

“As soon as you are in my stomach!”

“I’ve already told you, you are trying the impossible!”

“We'll see about that!” With a loud growl, the shark pushed forward. Giving a dulled slap with his pectoral fin, Valjean deflected the strike. He didn’t wait for the shark to turn around and advance again, instead set off with great speed. The shark shouted insults at him and followed suit.

Cosette tracked them with her eyes, astonished, then pursued with great caution. She knew sharks were one of the most dangerous predators of dolphin-kind - if Marius knew what she was doing, he would surely faint. But Cosette couldn’t just leave her father alone with a beast like that, even knowing her father could take care of himself and was much bigger than the shark.

She could see the two figures in the distance, the smaller one circling and from time to time getting closer to the larger one. She decided to advance on them more, and took advantage of a larger coral reef to hide behind and listen to their words. 

They passed close to her hiding spot, so she could hear every bit of their conversation.

“So what have you been up to the past couple of days? Seen any oceanic trenches? I am quite fond of the beauty of them,” her father said with forced cheerfulness.

“In the past days I was attempting to eat you, and when I was  not  doing that, I was planning how to eat you.” came the answer.

“Surely, you have something else to do?” The whale asked, dodging automatically. 

“Well, I have discovered a spring recently,” Javert divulged reluctantly, grinding his teeth because of the miss.

“Oh?” Valjean asked, interested. “Where is it?”

“It’s near the- wait a minute!” Javert’s piercing eyes flicked to Valjean’s face. “You won’t deter my attention this easily! My sole focus is you!”

The whale sighed, shaking his head and the two continued their banter while swimming farther away, where Cosette couldn’t hear them anymore.

Cosette was flabbergasted. How was it possible that her father was friendly towards such a beast? She couldn’t imagine. Despite the absurdity, it was sure that the whale, while clearly finding the shark’s continuous onslaught bothersome, tried to converse with him and deter him from further attacks, unsuccessfully.

Cosette trailed after them. After a while, she didn’t really think that Valjean was in danger anymore, so she stopped following them and returned to Marius.

 

*

 

Over the next couple of days, Cosette kept watch over Valjean and found that almost every day, the shark from before appeared to - well, meet him. The dolphin couldn’t determine whether it was a strange friendship or some sort of rivalry (at least from Javert’s part). In the end, it didn’t seem to hurt her father, and the shark - unintentionally, for sure - gave him some company, however dubious it was.

As Cosette was away much more than ever before, Marius got really curious. After a while, she gave in to his constant inquiry to let him know about Valjean’s bizarre new companion.

Marius was just as shocked as she was. This new development also made him accompany Cosette everywhere she went, to his wife's great chagrin.

“Cosette, that’s a shark we are talking about. I don’t care that he seems harmless to your father, he could seriously hurt you. I beg you, at least let me go with you next time, my heart couldn’t take it if you would get injured!”

He pleaded so long and so sweet that Cosette couldn’t say no. So, a few times, they watched Valjean together. After a while, they both deemed it unnecessary to do so. Even if it seemed like the shark was nothing but hostile, they couldn’t help but notice that Valjean seemed to be doing better since he met him. He wasn’t as thin anymore, his mood had lifted and the smiles he gave Cosette shone with true warmth. 

Cosette strongly suspected the two actually liked each other for some reason. Even the fact that his father might be friends with a predator didn’t bother her. In fact, she had seen situations much stranger.

So the fact that his father was on his way to be happy, filled her heart with joy.

 

*

 

Marius, on his part, was only glad Valjean’s new-found companion kept him away from Cosette. Long ago, when he found out that the adoptive father of the love of his life was a humpback whale, he was disconcerted. He tried speaking to Cosette many times about his concerns (this type of whale hunted dolphins for goodness sake!), but whenever he tried to bring up the topic, Cosette would call him silly and tell him her father wouldn't hurt anyone. Anyway, whenever she smiled at him in her sweet way, he forgot whatever they were even arguing about. He was astonished that a charming dolphin like her could have been nurtured by such a beast. Eventually he admitted that it was possible that murky water was able to produce the most beautiful seaflower once in a while. He still regarded Valjean with suspicion, kept his distance and tried to come up with reasons so he could keep Cosette away from him as much as possible.

Seeing that Valjean masterfully avoided injury facing one of the most dangerous animals of the ocean, he found some grudging respect for him in his heart. This respect however, was mixed with his growing suspicion that these two only fit together so well because both of them liked to hunt dolphins - which he found despicable. He never caught Valjean doing something like that, but the whale was away from them for long periods of time - who could say what he got up to in the meantime? There was also the fact that Valjean had many faded scars on his body - Cosette claimed wholeheartedly that those were from the time the two have spent in  that  place - but Marius couldn't fully believe it. All in all, he didn’t like the whale and the shark forming one team, not one bit!

Two dolphins meet a shark and it doesn't go well.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert had a plan. It was simple - simple, but effective - if he said so himself.

He was determined - following numerous meetings with Valjean - that the next time they meet, he is going to eat him. He could not stand anymore for the disrespect of his justified revenge. There was no way to deny it - Valjean was agile, sharp-minded and strong, so he proved himself to be a formidable opponent and a challenge. But it wouldn't be Javert if he backed down from something like this.

Javert was well aware that sharks didn’t usually attack whales, but that didn’t matter. What he took into his head, he always accomplished. He wanted to eat Valjean, thus he was going to eat Valjean. Simple as that.

The next meeting arrived sooner than he expected. He glimpsed the big, white body swimming past him in the distance one day. Immediately, he turned towards him, and started following, trying to be as inconspicuous as possible. He prepared for an ambush, which would be so deadly, Valjean would only notice when it was too late! Or, rather, wouldn’t notice it. Because he would be already dead! The thought made him feel unbeatable.

He tracked the whale who swam upwards - most probably, he needed air again.

He tried not to follow too closely to avoid detection, but not too far, so he could keep an eye on Valjean. It seemed to be working. Javert watched as he swam up for air, and he decided he would attack while Valjean was coming down again.

The opportunity came a while later. However, it seemed Valjean paid more attention to his surroundings nowadays, so he almost immediately spotted Javert while descending.

Disappointed, Javert let a scowl overtake his face.

"You're never going to give this up, will you?" asked Valjean, exasperated.

"I've told you I won't! What gave you the idea that I would stop?!"

"I guess it was wistful thinking," Valjean sighed, as the two continued their route.

*

"We should go say hello!”

Marius paled.

“Darling, what are you saying? We can’t go up to that shark and introduce ourselves, that’s unimaginable! Even if he doesn’t seem to harm your father, it can't bear imagining what he could do to us!”

They were in the middle of getting food for themselves, when they spotted the odd pair in the distance.

"I'm saying this shark is friendly to Papa and if he's friendly to him, then it's likely that he will be friendly to us too."  Marius tried to interrupt, but Cosette insisted. "Come on, having a shark as an ally could be a big advantage! Besides, making his acquaintance would even ensure he wouldn't… you know, hunt us."

Marius made a face. "I believe you have a point, but I still don't like the risk."

"It will be fine, trust me," said Cosette, and it seemed like this was the last word in the matter, as she started swimming towards her father and the shark. Marius knew he wouldn't be able to talk her out of anything if she got into this specific mood. He sighed, and begrudgingly followed her. At least this way he could keep his eye on the shark.

The odd pair soon noticed them. Javert narrowed his eyes in suspicion, and Valjean smiled uncertainly.

“Cosette, Marius, this is Javert. Javert, this is my daughter, Cosette and her husband, Marius.”

Javert gaped. 

“Daughter?!” He turned to the whale, whisper-shouting. “How can she be your daughter?! She’s a dolphin and you’re a whale!”

“She’s my adopted daughter, actually.” Valjean greeted the dolphins by touching their fins, then all of them turned to join in getting their food. Marius tried to keep a close eye on Javert, but flinched whenever the shark so much as looked at him.

As soon as they finished eating, Valjean, Marius and Cosette went to the surface for air and Javert followed them, grumbling about “ridiculous blowhole lifestyle”.

While he was waiting for them, Javert noticed Cosette and Marius breaking the surface and flipping back into the ocean. It seemed like a sort of entertainment for them, as they chirped in delight and broke through the surface multiple times just to fall back and swim down again, moving their bodies in waves excitedly. Valjean seemed content to swim underneath. Not long later, they decided to return to the depth. The four of them were swimming together, Javert sometimes snapping his jaw near Valjean’s tail, the whale grinning and pulling away each time.

“Go talk to father.” Cosette whispered to Marius.

“And leave you alone with that shark?!”

“I promise I won’t leave your line of sight-  you will be swimming behind us anyway.”

The boy was hard to convince, but he really couldn’t resist Cosette’s pleas, so he agreed reluctantly. There was not much he and the whale could discuss, but he knew one topic which would work. And indeed, mentioning Cosette made even Valjean’s tired eyes glint with joy.

Cosette swam closer to Javert and after a while, they engaged in conversation. What she wanted to know the most was from where did the whale and the shark know each other.

“He hit me with his tail!” Exclaimed Javert, drawing the other two’s attention. Marius seemed confused, Valjean openly simpered. Javert noticed himself, and continued in a lower voice, embarrassed now. “That’s when I swore that I’ll-”

“Annoy me to death, right?” Valjean ventured, widening his eyes at Javert, but still not letting the grin slip. It seemed like he tried to suggest something and soon Javert realized that Valjean wanted to keep Javert's, ahem, real intent secret from his daughter. Should he allow this? In the end, Javert didn’t mind indulging Valjean in this, as it seemed like the dolphins would only meddle with his plan if they would know about it.

So, he only huffed. Cosette seemed to find the story amusing. She waited until they swam further away from Valjean and Marius.

“You are a good influence on him, you know.” she said.

Javert spluttered. “I'm a what now?” 

“He used to brood so much before.” Cosette continued. “You know, he stopped breaching after a while.”

“Breaching?” Asked Javert, intrigued in spite of himself.

“It’s when we breach the surface and jump up in the air. He used to do it when I was little. I miss that side of him... I know he would do it if he knew I wanted to see it again, but that wouldn’t be the same.”

Javert hummed in contemplation, then hesitated a bit before asking what he really wanted for some time now.

“So what is this business with you being his daughter? He mentioned he ‘adopted you’?”

“Oh, yes!” Cosette exclaimed, and a fond expression appeared on her face. “He saved me, you know.” Her expression shifted to a somber one. “When I was very little, my mom and I got captured alongside many others, whales among them too. Papa was there with us as well. We were crammed together in a small place and humans kept us subdued with tools that hurt if we touched them. Many got injured and sick in the time of our captivity, including my mom.” Cosette sighed. “Papa was so brave. And clever! He figured out how to escape, but sadly, he didn’t have the chance until some of the others were placed into another container. My mother… she didn’t survive. Papa freed the rest of us. I didn’t have anywhere to go and Papa wouldn’t leave me on my own so, after a while, we became family. He is the most important person in my life.” Javert noticed Cosette trying to hold back tears and glanced away respectfully.

Cosette continued after a while. “He seemed so sad nowadays, so thin and joyless. I know he tried to not seem like that when he was around me, but I have sharp eyes. I’m very good at seeing how others feel, and Papa is happier now. I’m so glad that he got out of that bad mood. He is lucky that he has you for a friend.”

Javert, who until then listened to Cosette solemnly, snapped his head up.

“What do you mean friend?! We are not friends! We are-”

He couldn't finish his sentence. The words stuck in his throat when he felt a faint sweeping sensation touching his nose. The feeling disappeared as quickly as it had come.

He turned to Cosette "Have you felt something-"

Suddenly, he felt the same touch, only now it held much more power.  Alongside that, he could feel a strange pulling sensation on the skin of his nose, the kind of which he never felt before. The next thing he heard were the shouts of Valjean and Marius behind him and Cosette’s fearful exclamation a couple of strokes away.

He got squashed to several small bodies. He realized he was in the middle of a swarm of fish, feeling them twisting around desperately. Javert felt fear bubble up in his throat, his eyes widened and his senses got sharper as he reacted to the chaos around him. Through the mass of bodies he heard what probably was Cosette's voice; she whimpered. No matter how hard he tried, he couldn't make out her silhouette. Valjean and Marius were nowhere to be found either.  

There was an abrupt, great pressure, after which the fish pressed even closer to his body and something started to lift all of them. The pull was periodic and the net tightened around them with every move. The fish dug into his skin uncomfortably and he bit into them in panic while trying to wriggle free. He felt the fish’s blood fill his mouth and he realized he couldn't hear Cosette anymore. 

He felt an even stronger pull upwards and then he was no longer in the ocean. The water slid off his skin in a strange fashion, pressure tortured the inside of his ears, and he felt like his body weighed much more than before. 

Strong light blinded him. He never felt anything like this before. When he tried to take a gulp for oxygen, he only gasped without any water going through his gills. No...no! He suddenly plunged down again and took a painful gulp when he felt the water welcoming him back. He couldn’t delight in this luxury for long; he was pulled upwards again. He broke the surface of the water and this time tried not to breathe but panic gripped him, making him struggle and gasp. 

He felt a large weight press on his chest after which he couldn’t breathe or move properly. The bright light overcame everything and pierced his sight painfully, making it impossible to see.

He heard voices shouting, voices of a kind he never heard before.

Fear overtook him and it made his thinking cloudy. He floundered hopelessly with the fish around him, smell of blood surrounding him, together with a feeling of pain in his back and fin. The world became white.

DUN DUN DUUUN!

In which we meet Thénardier.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean swam next to Marius in awkward silence. In order to seem like doing something, he absent-mindedly observed Javert and Cosette engage in conversation. Occasionally, he opened his mouth to swallow some food.

After a while, Marius broke the silence.

“Excuse me for asking, but… how exactly have you become friends with the shark- uh…well… Javert?”

Valjean was surprised by Marius’ question, but he didn’t mind answering.

“Well… it’s a simple story really. One day, I was coming back to your territory when I accidentally hit him with my tail. You understand, I have not seen him as he was at my back. Thankfully, he wasn’t injured seriously. He… has somehow decided that he will eat me as punishment and chases me around whenever he has me in his sight. However, somehow the whole situation turned into more of a pleasantry. At least from my part, surely.” Valjean let out a small chuckle.

Marius was quiet for a while.

“Then, you must have found some things you have in common.” he breached the topic cautiously.

“Yes, surprisingly, we have quite a large amount of similar interests and topics which we can discuss-“

“No, I meant-“ here Marius stopped and started blushing, realizing he interrupted Valjean. When the whale nodded encouragingly, he continued.  “Uh, I meant alimentary… interests.”

“Whatever do you mean?” Valjean frowned.

“Well, you both hunt, you know… dolphins…”

“What?!” Valjean was so shocked he could only stare at Marius speechless for a while. The dolphin fumbled with his words describing the supposed eating habits of both whales and sharks.

“I’m sorry for interrupting, Marius, but whales don’t hunt dolphins,” Valjean said, still bewildered.

“Pardon?”

“You have seen me eat several times, haven't you? I have never even eaten fish!”

Marius looked at him wide-eyed.

“But a creature of your size, surely-“

“It’s not a matter of size, really,” Valjean looked at Marius, concerned. “Do you really believe I regularly hunt dolphins?” He frowned. “How do you think that would work,  Cosette  is a dolphin!”

Marius looked horrified all of a sudden.

“Oh my god, if it’s true… I was so ignorant… but-“

Shouts interrupted him. Shouts coming from Cosette and Javert. They both looked up in shock and saw fishermen’s net slowly closing in on the two of them. Valjean and Marius both launched in direction of the net immediately, but it was closing faster than they thought. A large amount of fish pressed to Javert and Cosette and before they had a chance to reach them, the two had already disappeared in the swarm.

“Cosette! Javert!”

There was no answer.

Valjean started searching for the edge of the net, and in a couple of seconds, he had it in his sight.

“We need to go to the edge and pull it downwards!” he shook his head. “Better yet, I will pull it down myself, please go get them out!”

He barely finished the sentence, Marius was on his way.

Valjean swam to the edge of the net and pushed it downwards with his nose, eventually realizing it was more effective if he had a little momentum. So he swam away a few paces, then returned and pushed down again with the added force. He saw that it was working at least a bit, as some fish escaped and swam past him from the trap.

He dared not to think about what Cosette and Javert would experience in this moment. The best thing he could do was exactly what he was doing at that moment.

He glanced up from time to time, only to see the swirling mass of fish, unable to free themselves, unable to escape…

He saw two larger outlines mark out from the fish and his heart skipped a beat. He recognized Cosette and Marius when they came closer. His heart became lighter, but he did not see Javert, and he felt a kind of fear he hadn't for a long time.

The dolphins arrived at his side but there was no Javert in sight.

“Cosette, are you all right?” he asked frantically.

“Yes, Papa, I just got scared,” Cosette seemed worse for wear, but fine apart from minor bruises.

“Have you seen Javert?” Now Valjean turned his focus back to the mass of fish.

“No, haven’t even sighted him,” Marius seemed concerned as well.

The net, which was pushed down by Valjean significantly, all of a sudden started to lift up at an alarming speed, to their great shock.

“No!”

The net pulled up and squeezed the bodies of fish together.

“We have to do something!” Valjean shouted. “Let's get closer!”

The three of them swam close to the net, which by now seemed almost impenetrable. Valjean followed the line of it, until he reached the bottom of the ship it belonged to. He saw the net being lifted up in rhythmic, strong pulls.

Marius and Cosette, having made a tour around the other side, came back with bad news.

“There is no opening!” said Cosette. “We need to figure out something else!”

Valjean looked up at the ship. “I might have an idea… but I don’t think you will like it.”

 

*

 

Thénardier was hopeful that this load of fish will bring them at least a decent amount of money for the next couple of weeks. It was such a pain that fishing was severely limited by international law. Thénardier himself believed in "where there’s a will, there's a way", most importantly, in regard to fishing. There was a demand, and he was more than willing to provide the supply by all means necessary.

They were in the middle of pulling up a new load to the ship, but some problems have made themselves known.

The first problem was that they couldn't close the net which was currently submerged.

"Babet, come here, check the net!" Thénardier called to his crewmate.

"It’s like it’s caught on something." Babet said, tugging on the material.

"Well, there is nothing to get caught on now, is there?" said Thénardier through his teeth. "No matter, let’s try bringing it in anyway."

Babet, Thénardier and some other crew members started pulling the net, and it eventually obeyed their will, albeit it took a couple of minutes. 

“This feels heavier than usual…” said Babet, with gritted teeth.

Thénardier ignored him. 

"Ready…Go!"

The net closed up properly. Thénardier grinned, he was already seeing the money in front of his eyes.

The load was almost aboard the ship, when Thénardier noticed something bigger moving around inside.

Large grey body, beady eyes, razor-sharp teeth…

"Careful! Shark!" Thénardier yelled.

The crew thankfully didn't let their grip slip and held on tight.

"What should we do, boss?"

‘Shark fin soup’ thought Thénardier. He smirked. Where there is demand, there shall be supply!

"Hold on tight! We’re bringing it in! Gueulemer, come here! It needs to be stabbed between the eyes! You two, bring that strap over here, we need to bind his jaw.” Thénardier held on stronger until Gueulemer was replaced by another man at the net and have taken his place near them holding a small blade. 

“Aaand pull!”

The load moved higher. 

“Aaand now!”

Thénardier shifted to accommodate the fish (and shark) to be brought aboard.

“Last one!” He shouted. “Ready-“

Thud!

Something large hit the side of the ship.

Thénardier almost let go of the net.

"What was that?!" yelled Babet, tightening his fists under the weight of the load.

"No idea," Thénardier said warily.

He leaned out over the banister to observe the water.

There was a strange wave pattern, but Thénardier couldn’t pinpoint anything concrete observing it further.

"Check the other side!" He ordered one of the men.

"Nothing, boss." the answer came a couple of seconds later.

"Ok, pull it!" ordered Thénardier.

Thud!

The ship was hit again and got rocked intensely. The men’s grip loosened and the net plunged back into the water. 

Several shouts broke the initial, shocked silence.

“What was that?!”

The men who were closer to the edge, looked down at the water cautiously. Thénardier followed their example and from the sight he became speechless. 

He blinked to clear his eyesight, not believing what he saw, but when he looked again, it was still there.

A whale.

No, it was definitely a whale.

All around him the men were shouting.

“What the hell?!”

“What do we do?”

“Boss-“

Thud!

A third hit rocked the ship so hard it knocked the men off their feet and they slipped away from the net.

“Gueulemer, hold it!” hissed Thénardier through gritted teeth. He held onto the net himself, the weight bearing down heavily on his palms, cutting into it even through his gloves.

“To the net! Don’t let go!” 

The men tried to hold onto the net, but the ship itself was swinging so much from side to side that even staying on their own two feet proved to be a challenge.

“Boss! We have to let it go!” shouted Babet.

“No! Keep holding it!” Thénardier looked over to the water again. He saw a large white body glint underneath the surface. It got closer, and closer then…

THUD!

The whole ship shook with an amount of force nobody expected. This time all men slipped and the net was ripped out of their hands. Thénardier only got a glimpse of the disappearing net over the barrister before falling on his back, staring open-mouthed. The ship was dangerously out of balance.

“Slowly spread out!” shouted Babet. “We need to get the balance back! On all fours, people!”

Thénardier stayed put, until the rocking of the vessel slowed, then got up to the side of the ship to look at the ocean.

The net - which has seen better days -  was still visible, but apart from some already dead fish, no living thing could be seen inside it. 

Thénardier let out a long breath. Around him, the men were finally moving around, as the rocking of the ship slowed to manageable levels. 

Babet leaned next to him on the barrister.

“Did that whale just Moby Dick us?”

They are safe! :)


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert felt the familiar caress of the water around him. His whole body ached. He also sensed other bodies around him, but they weren’t as close to him as before.

He opened his eyes. At first he only saw a blurred view of the ocean, but after blinking a couple of times, his sight became clear. He then met the concerned gazes of Valjean, Cosette, and Marius respectively.

“Javert!” cried Valjean. “Are you all right?”

Javert first blinked in confusion, then everything came back to him in a rush.

“Oh god!” he looked around, afraid. “Where’s- What happened?”

“You are safe” said Valjean urgently. “Don’t worry, we’ve gotten you out of there!”

“Out of… where, exactly?”

“You were nearly captured by a fishing net,” Cosette said, somberly. She looked down. “We both were.”

Javert was starting to properly remember it now. The confusion, the fear, Cosette’s frightened cries…

“But then- how…?”

“Papa and Marius saved us!”

“Well, it was more Father’s doing. Much more!” exclaimed Marius. “Without him, there was no way we would have been able to succeed.”

Valjean flushed. “Oh, it was nothing…”

“Nothing? You almost knocked a fishing ship over! How is that nothing?”

“I’m just glad both of you are all right.”  murmured Valjean and lowered his eyes in embarrassment.

Javert was reeling from the information.

“Are you alright?” Valjean asked once more, looking concerned.

“I… I need to go.” said Javert.

“What? But-“

Javert swam a couple of strokes away from the group. 

“Javert, wait!”

The shark turned around.

“Are you- doesn’t it hurt?”

“No... I’m fine,” Javert said, still in a kind of daze. He felt sore, but other than that and the shock, he felt okay. “I will go now.” He watched Valjean’s concerned face for a moment, feeling a tug on his heart. Barely keeping himself from sighing, he turned around and swam away.

He left the group behind him, feeling their eyes on his back.

 

 


 He saved me. He saved me. 



 I was dying and he saved me. 


He felt pain in his chest, but he realized it was only his heart. It hurt, yet Javert didn’t mind it.

He swam for an hour, in familiar places which relaxed him while his thoughts were in chaos.

Yet time and time again, he came back to the same thought.

This wonderful, amazing whale saved his life from certain death.

He tried to wrap his head around the fact that the creature he was openly antagonistic towards in the past couple of weeks, ultimately saved his life. He hunted Valjean, pursued him and caused him much aggravation, yet he put himself in grave danger just to save Javert’s life. The shark could not believe it. He needed time for himself to think things through.

He knew he will eventually cross paths with the whale again. He wasn’t sure what to say, but he thought he had time to figure it out. He let out a big yawn. As of now, he needed a big nap. 

 

*

 

Cosette and Marius were trying hard to calm down Valjean after Javert left. Marius was convincing him that Javert must have been all right, as there was nothing wrong with his swim pattern apart from some uncertain movements. Cosette reassured him as well. As all three of them kept a close eye on Javert while he was unconscious, they could see that apart from bruises and some cuts, no other injury showed on the shark - perhaps quite miraculously.

Yet Valjean still could not relax. He was worried that Javert might have internal injuries and could be in grave danger alone. Eventually, Cosette and Marius promised him that they would search together for Javert after they rested a bit to manage the shock. However, Javert was nowhere to be found, and with heavy hearts, the trio decided to try again the next day.

 

*

 

Valjean could barely sleep after the events that occured the previous day. It was in this sleep-deprived state that he went to get some food for himself. He needed energy if he wanted to search for Javert after all. He was planning to meet up with Cosette and Marius to decide what approach to take. 

As a pleasant, but frankly surprising side effect of the incident, Marius now held him in great respect - which moved Valjean’s heart, but also made him self-conscious. The dolphin, it seemed, had nearly as much affection for him as Cosette did. Valjean could not really deal with the emotion of his son in law, especially while he battled with his concern for Javert as well.

As of now, he could barely keep his eyes open, but he had to pull through for Javert. 

Valjean sighed, but then braced himself and swung his tail, which - to his greatest surprise - bumped something.

This sensation by now was eerily familiar. He had a suspicion that he no longer needed to search for a certain someone. Indeed, when he turned (with no small amount of dread), his eyes fell upon Javert, who seemed to shake his head in an attempt to clear his sight. 

Valjean’s stomach dropped as he swam close to the shark.

“Javert, are you all right?” he hurried to ask. “I’m so sorry!”

The shark finally focused his eyes on the whale.

“I’m fine, I’m fine!” he said hastily.

“This can’t keep happening…" Valjean murmured, shaking his head.

Javert looked at him and their gazes met.

Valjean stared at Javert and Javert stared at Valjean. Then they both burst into laughter.

“I can’t believe it! Three times!” chuckled Valjean.

“I think you secretly like it, you wouldn’t do it this much!” Javert accused him, but his eyes showed he was only joking.

Valjean felt the rhythm of his heart speed up. Javert looked at him so differently… there was warmth in his eyes. The whole behavior of the shark changed.

He now also seemed sheepish. His eyes darted from Valjean’s face to the side then back at Valjean, trying to return to his familiar haughty expression. He finally cleared his throat.

“Seeing recent events I have… decided… not to eat you.”

“Oh?” Valjean asked with barely hidden amusement.

Javert seemed like he very much wants to take back his decision, but then words just burst out of him, almost involuntarily.

“You have gone out of your way to save me… what, you have risked your life to save mine!” said Javert, overcome. “I can’t even begin to think how to pay back my debt.”

Valjean pinked. “No reason for that, dear fellow. There is no debt.” 

Javert looked like he wanted to argue. Valjean spoke before the shark could come up with any argument.

“I did not do it to make you indebted. I did it because… you are my friend.”

Javert’s eyes widened. He looked at Valjean’s genuine expression, and his heart throbbed.

He felt guilty for misunderstanding Valjean for so long. He was such a gentle, kind-hearted person, and he did not deserve constant attacks by a foolish shark after all he has been through. When Javert voiced this, Valjean became even more pink.

“But you- wouldn’t want to stop, would you?”

Javert furrowed his brows. “What do you mean?”

Valjean looked everywhere but at Javert.

“Meeting with me. You don’t want to stop, do you?”

There was tentative fear in Valjean’s voice. 'We cannot let that stay,' thought Javert.

“You don’t have to worry about that. You will not get rid of me that easy.” Javert allowed himself a grin. “Plus, if we think about it, saving someone’s life, you could say, makes up for nearly killing them-“

“Surely, you exaggerate!” Valjean laughed.

“Three times!” cried Javert. “You whales don’t know your strength! There should be regulations for this! I have some ideas, starting with having some proper swimming and awareness etiquette taught to whales! It should be followed by adequate education for several smaller species to take precautions around larger animals! I just need to list them all to take into consideration…We need regulations!”

As Javert continued his impassioned speech, Valjean just looked at him fondly. He never would have thought that he would find love this late in his life, after so many unfortunate experiences. Yet here they were.

Just weeks before, they didn't even know each other, but at this moment, he felt he was closer to Javert than anyone he met before. 

They were such a strange pair, but he was a strange whale - he admitted -, so it was hard to imagine he would fall in love in any other way. 

And Valjean would never have given this up for anything else.

 

 

After their lucky escape, Cosette sometimes saw the odd pair from a distance.

They were always swimming close, practically orbiting each other. When they touched fins and put their snouts together, Cosette chuckled softy with delight.

One day, she noticed them going towards the surface.

Her eyes opened in wonder when she saw the large whale take momentum, charge upwards through the water into the air, then flip. Her father was breaching again.

Cosette's whole face lit up with a smile. She was happy for her father. He was alone for so long, and he definitely deserved a love like this in his life. Perhaps for the first time since Cosette and Valjean met each other, all was truly well.

Thank you for joining me on this silly journey <3