Title: Standing in the Sun
Work ID: 8995990
Author: iberiandoctor (jehane)
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Vampire, Madeleine Era, Paris Era, Canon Compliant, Yuletide Treat, Vampire Javert
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

His sire had told him, "You will never again see the sun."

He was also told: There are many privileges that come with this office. You will be able to see in the dark with the feline phosphorescence of night birds. You will be able to pursue any malefactor relentlessly and with your eyes compel him. When the moon is on the wax you will be able to rise up like the air, and when it wanes you will walk in shadow. You will live a far longer lifespan than any mortal, long enough so you can protect them from themselves. 


But yours will always be a moonlit world, one where it is always night. For if you look upon the sunrise, you will crumble into dust.



It is a lonely calling, my protégé, spent living amongst the darkness of men's souls. You will know power and service, but you will never know love, nor will you ever stand in the sun again. 



You need to be certain this is a path you truly wish to take.


He had not hesitated. The child who had been born to the squalid darkness of a Paris prison, the boy whose father and mother had shunned the light, the son who had been compelled to arrest his own parents when they escaped once more from prison -- the daytime world held little for him, to say nothing of love. Let him serve the night, and root out the evil that mortals did.

"Drink, then," M. Chabouillet had said, stripping off his glove, and as Javert sank his new teeth into his sire's wrist and swallowed, he felt himself transformed.






Once again he was reborn in darkness, and from that darkness he raised himself in the Paris night. There were those of their kind who preyed on humans, but M. Chabouillet taught him to drink sparingly, from beasts rather than men. He did not need to be taught to keep the Law, which was above men and above their kind.

At Chabouillet's side he watched kings and queens and ministers govern France; he saw revolutionaries topple the monarchy and raise even more bloody rulers in its place. Impartially, from the shadows, he served them all. There was the Law, and the evil that mortals did, and France's sovereigns were mortal, after all, the same as any malefactor. They might parade their misdeeds in broad daylight, but they could not hide in the darkness for long before the redoubtable Inspector Javert.

Only one man had ever managed to conceal himself successfully: the convict Jean Valjean, who had for years impersonated a man of standing in Montreuil-sur-Mer. 

Javert had harboured suspicions of the new mayor from the beginning of his assignment to that sleepy town. The man's thick neck and brawny features seemed to bespeak a lifetime of labour rather than a gentleman's refined pursuits, and where law-abiding men tended to shrink from the fearsome countenance and forbidding manner of their kind, Madeleine went out of his way to engage Javert, signalling he was no ordinary citizen. 

But over the years, Madeleine's benevolence to the needy in the town, and his stoic kindness to Javert himself -- setting aside the crucifix he wore in Javert's presence, taking Javert's reports in the evening, doing him the courtesy of dinner invitations though Javert did not consume ordinary food -- had disarmed Javert's ill-feeling.

 It had been with great surprise and regret when they quarrelled over Javert's treatment of a prostitute, and Javert had discovered that Madeleine was in reality a fugitive, a parole-breaker with multiple escape attempts to his name, on the run after serving nineteen years in Toulon.

"Why did you try to be kind to me?" Javert had demanded, after they had put the man in chains and hauled him from the prostitute's deathbed. 

Valjean shrugged. "Kindness is owed to all of God's creatures," he had said.

Javert had scoffed at this -- clearly Jean Valjean had not ceased his subterfuge. God knew he had even tried to persuade Javert intervene in some alleged injustice done to the prostitute's child. 

But Valjean's eyes had shone in a way that suggested he did see Javert not as his rightful superior, or as an inferior creature, born to darkness and fated to serve mankind with his unlife, but as an equal under God. Being treated thus was both insult and unexpected gift, and Javert's long existence had not armed him with any means of coping with such kindness.






Later he received word that Jean Valjean had died in an accident on the ship Orion. He knew better, of course -- that old con had clearly managed to escape yet again.

 He did not stop looking: in Montfermeil, in Arras, in the shadows of Paris. Valjean was alive and walking in the daytime world, he was certain of it. The man could not hide for long.

"There are other criminals," M. Chabouillet had said warningly, after receiving one too many reports regarding potential sightings of the convict.

"And I will be equal to all of them," Javert had assured him.

Indeed, throughout Jean Valjean's long concealment, the Inspector had been equal to the darkness, and more than that: he had served faithfully in Paris after Montreuil-sur-Mer, successfully putting an end to a string of robberies in Les Halles and murders in the Quartier Latin and bringing to justice both the infamous rogue vampire Montparnasse and the Patron-Minette gang.

If he clutched at shadows, if he held to a coin abandoned at a crime scene as a memento of his one past failure, if he spoke to it as if to summon Jean Valjean from the air itself, what was that to the Law? Surely he was permitted this singular indulgence, in an existence that otherwise brooked no room for reproach. 






After the Three Glorious Days, Paris experienced an outbreak of cholera that saw the demise of thousands, including the prime minister. And then the summer came, and the city was a festering tinder-box of sickness and discontent. 

As with most of his kind, Javert spent most of the summer months in his cool rooms on the south side of the catacombs, near the city gates. But that summer there were riots after General Lamarque died, and there were insufficient policemen to quell the city's unrest. By that time M. Chabouillet had retired to a quiet life of tending grapes by moonlight in the country, and M. Gisquet, the new Prefect of Police, pressed Javert and the others into service. 

Javert had gone on duty at the end of his strength, at the extreme wane of the moon. He had let his guard down, and he had been captured by schoolboys with holy water and tied to a makeshift crucifix in a wine-shop. 

One of the lads said, brashly, "Should I put the police spy to the stake? We have wood left over from constructing the barricades." 

"No," their leader said, his voice flat and calm. "Tie him to a cross in the open and leave him to the sunrise."

And in that moment, after more than a decade of hiding, Jean Valjean revealed himself. 

Javert did not ordinarily believe in destiny save that made by those of their kind, but it must have been some inexplicable hand which steered that man to this place, wearing the uniform of a National Guardsman and his air of ineffable longsuffering.

"Let me do it," said Valjean. In the moonlight, his eyes were filled with that damned kindness.

The kindness burned more than the rosary in Valjean's hand, the wooden crucifix to which Javert was lashed. 

Javert had barely the strength to stumble after Valjean across the Rue de Mondetour; he watched dully as the man lashed wood to a pillar, making cross-beams to which Javert's arms could be bound. 

He supposed it might be a fitting conclusion to his century of service. There was a certain weary satisfaction in the prospect of laying down his burdens after so many years. And it seemed he would be able to gaze upon the sunrise once more before the end.

When Valjean turned from his labours, set his rosary to one side, and cut Javert free, the emotion that Javert felt was not relief.

"Is this a trick?" But Javert could see in Valjean's eyes that it was not.

"You are free," Valjean said. "You were doing your duty, and now I am doing mine."

Again, that kindness! "What would a convict, a malefactor, know of duty?"

Valjean put out a steadying hand as Javert found his strength again. "It is because I was shown love and mercy long ago. A bishop purchased my soul for God, and it has been my duty to serve Him ever since." 

Javert straightened painfully. That strange emotion still tightened his breast. "Even if that meant showing mercy to one whose duty would be to capture you?"

"Even so," Valjean said, taking up his rosary and the wooden stake he had brought with him. "I have only been evading recapture because of the promise I made to Fantine, to protect her daughter Cosette so she can rest in peace. But I will not be on the run for much longer. When the time comes, I wish you to re-arrest me."

This made no sense to Javert, and he told Valjean so; so as to make good his point, he also told the man about his criminal parents, and what he had had to do to them, and how he had sought to remake himself in a world where darkness would always prevail -- because there would always be criminals, and criminals did not change their natures, and needed to be stopped.

Valjean listened to this confession, which Javert had never revealed in the long years of his existence, not even to M. Chabouillet.

Then he set aside his rosary and the stake, and said with equanimity, "You are wrong. People can change. There is still love in the world. The Bishop showed me that, and I am now showing it to you."

He nodded to the lightening sky. "You should go now, before the sun rises."

Javert did not comprehend why he did not take Valjean into custody there and then. His strength was returning, and Valjean was defenceless, having left his rosary on the wall. 

Instead he retreated into the safety of the shadows, but not before casting a look at the sliver of light on the horizon.






The long night at the barricades was followed by a dark day of reports and the ire of the human Prefect. When night fell, Javert was once again despatched to the front lines, and by the same hand of destiny he encountered Valjean yet again.

One more time, Valjean asked for his intervention, this time on behalf of one of the young revolutionaries. "Help me, and I will surrender to your custody," Valjean had said, as he held the dying boy in his arms.

This time, the strange compulsion that had clung to Javert at the barricades drove him to comply, as if the world had turned upside down, and Valjean was the one with power to procure obedience.

Riding back from the Gillenormand home in the carriage, Valjean's story about the Bishop and then Petit Gevrais ringing in his ears, Javert did not know where to turn. He knew it was his sworn duty to arrest the man, and equally he knew he was incapable of so doing.

He fled from Valjean's house, stood on the Pont au Change and saw the abyss open up beneath him. Saw too, after all, that his pursuit of Valjean, his actions regarding Fantine, his entire life's work, had been wrong, and a cruel mistake. In trying to carry out justice, in upholding the letter of the Law, in insisting on the darkness in men's hearts, it seemed he had acted unjustly from the very beginning.

I was mistaken, he said to himself; he said it to M. Chabouillet, to his parents, to Jean Valjean.

In the end, he chose to wait for the dawn. That way, Valjean would be safe, and he, Javert, would see daylight one final time.

It seemed to take forever, but finally the sun rose: brilliant and ruddy, turning the river to gold and bringing the sleeping city to life once more. 

It was the most beautiful thing Javert had seen in all his long unlife, even more beautiful than the Law, and the kindness in Valjean's eyes.

Slowly, he realised he had not in fact crumbled to dust.

His heart was pounding in his chest; he took in great gasps of air; there were tears in his eyes for the first time this century.

He was standing in the sun, and he was still alive.

People were capable of change. Valjean had been changed by God and by love. And Javert himself? He had clearly been changed as well, despite all sense and better judgment, by Jean Valjean himself.

Here was a man who had overcome a miserable life, and had somehow managed to find his way towards the light, towards love. How much more so could he overcome one policeman, who had never died and never loved? Who had sought to be returned to nature, in the way that the night would arrive after the day passes, but who had been rescued from that eternal darkness by something passing similar to love.

Javert paused, then he turned on his heel. He walked from the bridge into the brightness of the day.

He was going to find Jean Valjean and tell him how he felt, at last.